>> Ifill:
DEFECTIVE AIRBAGS <font
color="#ffff00">IN NEARLY 34
MILLION VEHICLES <font
IN U.S.
HISTORY.LION VEHICLES
E
JUDY
WOODRUFF IS AWAY.
WOODRUFF IS AWAY.  <font
color="#ffff00">ALSO AHEAD
THIS
ALSO AHEAD
THIS <font
color="#ffff00">TUESDAY:
<font
>> I WANT
THOSE EMAILS OUT.
THOSE EMAILS OUT. <font
color="#ffff00">>> Ifill:
SPEEDING THE RELEASE
>> Ifill:
OF HILLARY
CLINTON'S EMAILS AS
CLINTON'S EMAILS AS <font
color="#ffff00">SECRETARY OF
STATE.
SECRETARY
OF STATE. <font
color="#ffff00">THE CANDIDATE
AND A FEDERAL
THE
CANDIDATE AND A FEDERAL
JUDGE CALL
ON THE STATE
ON THE STATE  <font
color="#ffff00">DEPARTMENT TO
MOVE FASTER.
DEPARTMENT
TO MOVE FASTER.  <font
color="#ffff00">PLUS, SAVING
SYRIA'S PRICELESS
PLUS,
SAVING SYRIA'S PRICELESS
<font
color="#ffff00">ANTIQUITIES FROM
THE RAVAGES OF  <font
color="#ffff00">WAR, SMUGGLERS
WAR,
SMUGGLERS PROTECT RELICS OF
<font
color="#ffff00">HISTORY FROM
HISTORY
FROM SALE ON THE BLACK
MARKET, OR
PERMANENT
PERMANENT  <font
color="#ffff00">DESTRUCTION.</fo
<font
>> WE FEEL
THE DEEP SORROW AND
DEEP
FEELING OF INCAPACITY
THAT
YOU ARE IN
FRONT OF A HERITAGE
THAT IS
BEING DESTROYED AND YOU
CANNOT DO
ANYTHING.
ANYTHING. <font
color="#ffff00">>> Ifill: THOSE
ARE SOME OF THE
>> Ifill:
THOSE ARE SOME OF THE
STORIES
WE'RE COVERING ON
WE'RE COVERING ON  <font
color="#ffff00">TONIGHT'S PBS
NEWSHOUR.
>> Ifill:
"ISLAMIC STATE"  <font
color="#ffff00">FIGHTERS IN IRAQ
MOVED TODAY TO
FIGHTERS
IN IRAQ MOVED TODAY TO
<font
color="#ffff00">CONSOLIDATE THE
CAPTURE OF THEIR  <font
color="#ffff00">NEWEST PRIZE:
NEWEST
PRIZE: THE CITY OF <font
color="#ffff00">RAMADI.
<font
AT THE
SAME TIME, A NEW BATTLE
TOOK
SHAPE.
SHAPE. <font
color="#ffff00">SOME SHIITE
MILITIAMEN, ALLIED
SOME
SHIITE MILITIAMEN, ALLIED
<font
color="#ffff00">WITH THE IRAQI
WITH THE
IRAQI ARMY, MASSED AT A
NEARBY
BASE, TO PREPARE FOR A
<font
color="#ffff00">COUNTER-ATTACK.<
IN
WASHINGTON, THE FALL OF
RAMADI
STRUCK SPARKS IN
STRUCK SPARKS IN <font
color="#ffff00">CONGRESS.
<font
HOUSE
SPEAKER JOHN BOEHNER
BLAMED
PRESIDENT OBAMA.
PRESIDENT OBAMA. <font
color="#ffff00">>> THE
PRESIDENT'S PLAN ISN'T
>> THE
<font
color="#ffff00">WORKING.
IT'S TIME
FOR HIM TO COME UP
FOR HIM TO COME UP <font
color="#ffff00">WITH A REAL,
OVERARCHING
WITH A
REAL, OVERARCHING  <font
color="#ffff00">STRATEGY TO
DEFEAT OF THE
STRATEGY
TO DEFEAT OF THE  <font
color="#ffff00">ONGOING
TERRORIST THREAT.
ONGOING
TERRORIST THREAT.  <font
color="#ffff00">WHEN A MAJOR
CITY IN IRAQ,
WHEN A
MAJOR CITY IN IRAQ,
RAMADI,
GETS OVERRUN BY ISIL AND
THE
ADMINISTRATION SAYS,
ADMINISTRATION SAYS, "WELL,
<font
color="#ffff00">IT'S JUST A
IT'S JUST
A TEMPORARY SETBACK."
IT'S 70
MILES FROM BAGHDAD.
>> Ifill:
AT THE WHITE HOUSE,
SPOKESMAN
JOSH EARNEST SAID
JOSH EARNEST SAID  <font
color="#ffff00">THE PRESIDENT IS
OPEN TO
THE
PRESIDENT IS OPEN TO
<font
color="#ffff00">SUGGESTIONS, BUT
HE COUNSELED  <font
color="#ffff00">AGAINST
AGAINST
OVER-REACTING. <font
color="#ffff00">>> I THINK THIS
ILLUSTRATES HOW
>> I THINK
THIS ILLUSTRATES HOW
IMPORTANT
IT IS FOR US TO
IT IS FOR US TO  <font
color="#ffff00">MAINTAIN SOME
PERSPECTIVE ON
MAINTAIN
SOME PERSPECTIVE ON <font
color="#ffff00">THIS.
<font
WE'VE HAD
OTHER PERIODS OF
OTHER PERIODS OF  <font
color="#ffff00">SETBACK TOO THAT
HAVE BEEN
SETBACK
TOO THAT HAVE BEEN  <font
color="#ffff00">FOLLOWED BY
SHORTLY BY IMPORTANT
FOLLOWED
BY SHORTLY BY IMPORTANT
<font
color="#ffff00">PROGRESS.
THIS IS
SOMETHING THAT THE
SOMETHING THAT THE  <font
color="#ffff00">PRESIDENT IS
MINDFUL OF.
PRESIDENT
IS MINDFUL OF. <font
color="#ffff00">AND IT'S
SOMETHING THAT HE'S
AND IT'S
TALKING
ABOUT WITH HIS NATIONAL
SECURITY
TEAM JUST ABOUT
TEAM JUST ABOUT  <font
color="#ffff00">EVERY DAY,
INCLUDING TODAY.
EVERY DAY,
INCLUDING TODAY. <font
color="#ffff00">>> Ifill: BACK
IN BAGHDAD, PRIME
>> Ifill:
BACK IN BAGHDAD, PRIME
MINISTER
HAIDER AL-ABADI
HAIDER AL-ABADI  <font
color="#ffff00">ALSO CAME UNDER
PRESSURE.
ALSO CAME
UNDER PRESSURE.  <font
color="#ffff00">SUNNI LAWMAKERS
INSISTED ON
SUNNI
LAWMAKERS INSISTED ON
ARMING
SUNNI TRIBESMEN
SUNNI TRIBESMEN  <font
color="#ffff00">IMMEDIATELY, TO
BATTLE ISIS.
<font
color="#ffff00">IMMEDIATELY, TO
BATTLE ISIS.  <font
color="#ffff00">BUT SHIITES
BUT
SHIITES ARGUED THE TRIBES
<font
color="#ffff00">HAVE DIVIDED
HAVE
DIVIDED LOYALTIES, AND THEY
<font
color="#ffff00">WARNED THE
WARNED THE
WEAPONS ARE LIKELY TO
END UP IN
THE HANDS OF THE
THE HANDS OF THE <font
color="#ffff00">MILITANTS.</font
<font
A
HISTORIC, PEACE-MAKING GESTURE
<font
color="#ffff00">PLAYED OUT TODAY
PLAYED OUT
TODAY IN IRELAND.  <font
color="#ffff00">BRITAIN'S PRINCE
CHARLES AND
BRITAIN'S
PRINCE CHARLES AND  <font
color="#ffff00">IRISH
NATIONALIST LEADER GERRY
IRISH
ADAMS MET
IN GALWAY AND
IN GALWAY AND <font
color="#ffff00">SHOOK
HANDS.
SHOOK
HANDS. <font
color="#ffff00">THEN, THEY MET
PRIVATELY
THEN, THEY
MET PRIVATELY  <font
color="#ffff00">FOR 15
MINUTES.
FOR 15
MINUTES. <font
color="#ffff00">IT CAME 36 YEARS
AFTER AN I.R.A.
IT CAME 36
YEARS AFTER AN I.R.A.
BOMB
KILLED LORD LOUIS
KILLED LORD LOUIS  <font
color="#ffff00">MOUNTBATTEN, THE
PRINCE'S GREAT-
<font
color="#ffff00">MOUNTBATTEN, THE
PRINCE'S GREAT- <font
color="#ffff00">UNCLE.
<font
AT THE
TIME, ADAMS WAS REPUTEDLY
AN
I.R.A. COMMANDER, AND HE
AN I.R.A.
COMMANDER, AND HE <font
color="#ffff00">DEFENDED THE
KILLING.
DEFENDED
THE KILLING. <font
color="#ffff00">TODAY, HE
SOUNDED CONCILIATORY.
TODAY, HE
>> THERE
HAS BEEN A LOT OF HURT
AND
THANKFULLY ALL OF THAT
THANKFULLY ALL OF THAT AND
<font
color="#ffff00">THE CONFLICT IS
THE
CONFLICT IS BEHIND US, BUT
<font
color="#ffff00">THE HURT ISN'T
THE HURT
ISN'T BEHIND US AND I'D
LIKE TO
THINK THAT TODAY'S
THINK THAT TODAY'S  <font
color="#ffff00">ENGAGEMENT WILL
BE A SYMBOLIC
ENGAGEMENT
WILL BE A SYMBOLIC  <font
color="#ffff00">BUT ALSO A
PRACTICAL STEP OF
BUT ALSO A
PRACTICAL STEP OF <font
color="#ffff00">FACING INTO THE
FUTURE.
FACING
INTO THE FUTURE. <font
color="#ffff00">>> Ifill: THE
I.R.A. AGREED
>> Ifill:
THE I.R.A. AGREED  <font
color="#ffff00">TO A PERMANENT
CEASE-FIRE IN
TO A
PERMANENT CEASE-FIRE IN
2005, BUT
SPLINTER GROUPS ARE
SPLINTER GROUPS ARE <font
color="#ffff00">STILL
ACTIVE.
STILL
ACTIVE. <font
color="#ffff00">ADAMS NOW LEADS
THE IRISH
ADAMS NOW
LEADS THE IRISH  <font
color="#ffff00">NATIONALIST SINN
FEIN PARTY.
<font
color="#ffff00">NATIONALIST SINN
FEIN PARTY.  <font
color="#ffff00">THE
THE
INVESTIGATION OF A BRAZEN
<font
color="#ffff00">JEWELRY ROBBERY
JEWELRY
ROBBERY IN LONDON TOOK A
SUDDEN,
NEW TWIST TODAY.
NEW TWIST TODAY.  <font
color="#ffff00">MORE THAN 200
SCOTLAND YARD
MORE THAN
200 SCOTLAND YARD  <font
color="#ffff00">OFFICERS SWOOPED
DOWN ON ALLEGED
OFFICERS
SWOOPED DOWN ON ALLEGED
MEMBERS OF
THE GANG BEHIND
THE GANG BEHIND  <font
color="#ffff00">THE EASTER
WEEKEND HEIST.
THE EASTER
WEEKEND HEIST.  <font
color="#ffff00">ROHIT KACHROO OF
INDEPENDENT
ROHIT
KACHROO OF INDEPENDENT
TELEVISION
NEWS REPORTS.
NEWS REPORTS.  <font
color="#ffff00">>> Reporter:
THESE ARE THE
>>
Reporter: THESE ARE THE
FIGURES
BEHIND WHAT MIGHT BE A
<font
color="#ffff00">BREAKTHROUGH IN
THIS <font
color="#ffff00">INVESTIGATION.</
<font
12 HOMES
RAIDED, NINE MEN  <font
color="#ffff00">ARRESTED, THREE
OF THEM
ARRESTED,
THREE OF THEM  <font
color="#ffff00">PENSIONERS, ONE
AGED 76.
<font
color="#ffff00">PENSIONERS, ONE
AGED 76.  <font
color="#ffff00">AUDACIOUS
AUDACIOUS
DOESN'T QUITE DESCRIBE
WHAT
HAPPENED HERE.
HAPPENED HERE. <font
color="#ffff00">COMPLEX DOESN'T
REPRESENT THE
COMPLEX
DOESN'T REPRESENT THE
<font
color="#ffff00">INVESTIGATION
THAT FOLLOWED WHEN  <font
color="#ffff00">THIEVES BROKE
THIEVES
BROKE THROUGH CONCRETE
<font
color="#ffff00">WALLS.
SCENE OF
THE DIAMOND TRADE OF
19TH
CENTURY BECAME THE SCENE
OF <font
color="#ffff00">THE CRIME OF THE
THE CRIME
OF THE 21ST. <font
color="#ffff00">TODAY THE POLICE
DEFENDED THEIR
TODAY THE
POLICE DEFENDED THEIR
<font
color="#ffff00">WORK.
>> AT
TIMES WE HAVE BEEN
TIMES WE HAVE BEEN  <font
color="#ffff00">PORTRAYED AS IF
WE'D ACTED LIKE
PORTRAYED
AS IF WE'D ACTED LIKE
KEYSTONE
COPS.
COPS. <font
color="#ffff00">BUT I WANT TO
REASSURE YOU THAT
BUT I WANT
TO REASSURE YOU THAT
IN THE
FINEST TRADITIONS OF
SCOTLAND
YARD, THESE DETECTIVES
HAVE DONE
THEIR UTMOST TO BRING
JUSTICE
FOR THE VICTIMS OF THIS
CALLOUS
CRIME.
CRIME. <font
color="#ffff00">>> Reporter:
THAT'S A REFERENCE
>>
Reporter: THAT'S A REFERENCE
TO
ALLEGATIONS THAT OFFICERS
<font
color="#ffff00">DIDN'T RESPOND
DIDN'T
RESPOND TO AN ALARM <font
color="#ffff00">QUICKLY
ENOUGH.
QUICKLY
ENOUGH. <font
color="#ffff00">>> AS A RESULT
OF THOSE
>> AS A
RESULT OF THOSE  <font
color="#ffff00">SEARCHES, A
SIGNIFICANT AMOUNT
SEARCHES,
A SIGNIFICANT AMOUNT
OF HIGH
VALUE PROPERTY HAS BEEN
<font
color="#ffff00">RECOVERED.</font
AGAIN I
JUST URGE VICTIMS TO
PLEASE
STAY PATIENT.
STAY PATIENT.  <font
color="#ffff00">POLICE OFFICERS
WILL BE IN
POLICE
OFFICERS WILL BE IN
CONTACT
WITH THEM IN ORDER THAT
WE RESTORE
THIS PROPERTY BACK TO
THEIR
RIGHTFUL OWNERS.
RIGHTFUL OWNERS. <font
color="#ffff00">>> Reporter:
SCOTLAND YARD
>>
Reporter: SCOTLAND YARD
OFFICERS
ARE SEARCHING THROUGH
WHAT WAS
FOUND IN ALL OF TODAY'S
<font
color="#ffff00">RAIDS.
ON FIRST
GLANCE, IT SEEMS MOST
OF THE
PROPERTY HAS BEEN
PROPERTY HAS BEEN <font
color="#ffff00">RECOVERED.</font
<font
AND
TONIGHT, THE ARRESTED MEN--
<font
color="#ffff00">AVERAGE AGE 62--
AVERAGE
AGE 62-- ARE STILL BEING
<font
color="#ffff00">QUESTIONED.</fon
>> Ifill:
POLICE HAVE NOT  <font
color="#ffff00">PUT A PRICE ON
HOW MUCH THE
PUT A
PRICE ON HOW MUCH THE
THIEVES
GOT AWAY WITH, BUT
GOT AWAY WITH, BUT  <font
color="#ffff00">BRITISH NEWS
ACCOUNTS SAY
BRITISH
NEWS ACCOUNTS SAY <font
color="#ffff00">IT COULD TOTAL
$300 MILLION.
IT COULD
TOTAL $300 MILLION.
BACK IN
THIS COUNTRY, NEW
THIS COUNTRY, NEW  <font
color="#ffff00">RESEARCH FINDS
THE RATE OF
RESEARCH
FINDS THE RATE OF  <font
color="#ffff00">SUICIDES FOR
YOUNG, BLACK
SUICIDES
FOR YOUNG, BLACK  <font
color="#ffff00">CHILDREN NEARLY
DOUBLED BETWEEN
CHILDREN
NEARLY DOUBLED BETWEEN
1993 AND
2012.
2012. <font
color="#ffff00">THE RATE AMONG
WHITE KIDS WAS
THE RATE
AMONG WHITE KIDS WAS
<font
color="#ffff00">DOWN.
THE STUDY
WAS BASED AT
WAS BASED AT  <font
color="#ffff00">NATIONWIDE
CHILDREN'S HOSPITAL
NATIONWIDE
CHILDREN'S HOSPITAL <font
color="#ffff00">IN COLUMBUS,
OHIO.
IN
COLUMBUS, OHIO. <font
color="#ffff00">THE AUTHORS
CITED EXPOSURE TO
THE
AUTHORS CITED EXPOSURE TO
<font
color="#ffff00">VIOLENCE AND
VIOLENCE
AND STRESS AS POSSIBLE
<font
color="#ffff00">FACTORS.
THE HOUSE
GAVE FINAL APPROVAL
TODAY TO A
BILL AIMED
BILL AIMED <font
color="#ffff00">AT ENDING SEXUAL
TRAFFICKING
AT ENDING
SEXUAL TRAFFICKING  <font
color="#ffff00">AND SLAVERY,
THAT HAD DELAYED
AND
SLAVERY, THAT HAD DELAYED
<font
color="#ffff00">THE CONFIRMATION
THE
CONFIRMATION OF ATTORNEY
GENERAL
LORETTA LYNCH.
LORETTA LYNCH. <font
color="#ffff00">AMONG OTHER
THINGS, THE BILL
AMONG
OTHER THINGS, THE BILL
CREATES A
FUND FOR VICTIMS.
FUND FOR VICTIMS. <font
color="#ffff00">THE MEASURE
ALREADY PASSED THE
THE
MEASURE ALREADY PASSED THE
<font
color="#ffff00">SENATE, AND
SENATE,
AND PRESIDENT OBAMA
IS
EXPECTED TO SIGN IT.
IN
ECONOMIC NEWS, LOS
ECONOMIC NEWS, LOS ANGELES
<font
color="#ffff00">WILL BECOME THE
WILL
BECOME THE LARGEST CITY IN
<font
color="#ffff00">THE NATION TO
THE NATION
TO RAISE ITS MINIMUM
WAGE TO
$15 AN HOUR.
$15 AN HOUR. <font
color="#ffff00">THE CITY COUNCIL
VOTED TODAY TO
THE CITY
COUNCIL VOTED TODAY TO
HIKE THE
WAGE FOR COMPANIES WITH
AT LEAST
25 WORKERS.
25 WORKERS. <font
color="#ffff00">ON WALL STREET
TODAY, THE DOW
ON WALL
STREET TODAY, THE DOW
JONES
INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE GAINED
POINTS TO CLOSE ABOVE
13 POINTS
TO CLOSE ABOVE <font
color="#ffff00">18,300.
<font
THE NASDAQ
FELL EIGHT POINTS.
FELL EIGHT POINTS.  <font
color="#ffff00">AND THE S-AND-P
500 LOST ONE
AND THE
S-AND-P 500 LOST ONE
<font
color="#ffff00">POINT.
STILL TO
COME ON THE NEWSHOUR:
AND THE
NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS
HAVE
DECIDED NOT TO APPEAL
DECIDED NOT TO APPEAL THEIR
<font
color="#ffff00">PENALTY FOR
PENALTY
FOR USING UNDERINFLATED
<font
color="#ffff00">FOOTBALLS.</font
TEAM OWNER
BOB KRAFT AGAIN  <font
color="#ffff00">CRITICIZED THE
NFL FOR FINING
CRITICIZED
THE NFL FOR FINING  <font
color="#ffff00">THE SUPER BOWL
CHAMPIONS $1
THE SUPER
BOWL CHAMPIONS $1  <font
color="#ffff00">MILLION AND
TAKING AWAY TWO
MILLION
AND TAKING AWAY TWO
DRAFT
PICKS, BUT HE SAID HE
WON'T
PURSUE THE MATTER.
PURSUE THE MATTER. <font
color="#ffff00">>> I KNOW THAT A
LOT OF PATRIOT
>> I KNOW
THAT A LOT OF PATRIOT
FANS ARE
GOING TO BE
GOING TO BE  <font
color="#ffff00">DISAPPOINTED IN
THAT DECISION,
<font
color="#ffff00">DISAPPOINTED IN
THAT DECISION,  <font
color="#ffff00">BUT I HOPE THEY
BUT I HOPE
THEY TRUST MY  <font
color="#ffff00">JUDGMENT AND
KNOW THAT I REALLY
JUDGMENT
AND KNOW THAT I REALLY
FEEL AT
THIS POINT IN TIME THAT
TAKING
THIS OFF THE AGENDA, THIS
IS
THE BEST THING FOR THE
IS THE
BEST THING FOR THE NEW
ENGLAND
PATRIOTS, OUR FANS AND
THE
NFL.
NFL. <font
color="#ffff00">>> Ifill: THE
LEAGUE HAS ALSO
>> Ifill:
THE LEAGUE HAS ALSO
SUSPENDED
PATRIOTS' QUARTERBACK
TOM BRADY
FOR THE FIRST GAMES OF
NEXT
SEASON.
SEASON. <font
color="#ffff00">THE PLAYERS'
UNION REAFFIRMED
THE
PLAYERS' UNION REAFFIRMED
<font
color="#ffff00">TODAY THAT HIS
TODAY THAT
HIS APPEAL WILL GO <font
color="#ffff00">FORWARD.
<font
STILL TO
COME ON THE NEWSHOUR:
TAKATA
RECALLS AIR BAGS FOR
33.8
MILLION VEHICLES
MILLION VEHICLES WORLDWIDE.
<font
color="#ffff00">E-MAILS, MONEY
E-MAILS,
MONEY AND THE HILLARY
CLINTON
CONTROVERSIES THAT DON'T
SEEM TO GO
AWAY;
AWAY; <font
color="#ffff00">PROTECTING THE
RELICS OF SYRIAN
PROTECTING
THE RELICS OF SYRIAN
HISTORY
FROM LOOTERS AND
FROM LOOTERS AND <font
color="#ffff00">DESTROYERS;</fon
<font
A LATE
NIGHT LEGEND, DAVID
LETTERMAN,
PREPARES TO END
PREPARES TO END  <font
color="#ffff00">THREE DECADES ON
THE AIR;
THREE
DECADES ON THE AIR; <font
color="#ffff00">AND, A NEW BOOK
ON HOW CHEROKEES
AND, A NEW
BOOK ON HOW CHEROKEES
EMBRACED
DEMOCRACY, BUT LOST
THEIR
FREEDOMS, BY N.P.R.'S
STEVE
INSKEEP
>> Ifill:
THE GOVERNMENT  <font
color="#ffff00">ANNOUNCED
TODAY
ANNOUNCED
TODAY <font
color="#ffff00">THAT TAKATA, THE
JAPANESE
THAT
TAKATA, THE JAPANESE
<font
color="#ffff00">MANUFACTURER OF
MANY AUTOMOTIVE  <font
color="#ffff00">AIRBAGS, IS
AIRBAGS,
IS DOUBLING THE SIZE
OF ITS
RECALL TO NEARLY 34
RECALL TO NEARLY 34 <font
color="#ffff00">MILLION
VEHICLES.
MILLION
VEHICLES. <font
color="#ffff00">THE DEPARTMENT
OF TRANSPORTATION
THE
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION
<font
color="#ffff00">HAS BEEN PUSHING
HAS BEEN
PUSHING TAKATA TO  <font
color="#ffff00">EXPAND THE
RECALL FOR MONTHS,
EXPAND THE
RECALL FOR MONTHS,  <font
color="#ffff00">LEVYING DAILY
FINES.
LEVYING
DAILY FINES. <font
color="#ffff00">THE AIRBAGS CAN
EXPLODE WHEN
THE
AIRBAGS CAN EXPLODE WHEN
DEPLOYED,
SPEWING METAL
SPEWING METAL  <font
color="#ffff00">FRAGMENTS INTO
THE CHEST AND
FRAGMENTS
INTO THE CHEST AND <font
color="#ffff00">BODY.
<font
AT LEAST
FIVE DEATHS AND MORE
THAN 100
INJURIES
INJURIES <font
color="#ffff00">ARE LINKED WITH
THE AIRBAGS.
ARE LINKED
WITH THE AIRBAGS.  <font
color="#ffff00">ANTHONY FOXX,
THE SECRETARY OF
ANTHONY
FOXX, THE SECRETARY OF
<font
color="#ffff00">TRANSPORTATION,
SPOKE OF THE  <font
color="#ffff00">SCOPE OF THE
SCOPE OF
THE RECALL AT A NEWS
<font
color="#ffff00">CONFERENCE.</fon
>> THIS
RECALL INVOLVES 11 AUTO
<font
color="#ffff00">MANUFACTURERS,
MANY DIFFERENT  <font
color="#ffff00">PARTS SUPPLIERS,
PARTS
SUPPLIERS, NOT JUST
TAKATA,
AND ROUGHLY DOUBLE THE
NUMBER OF
VEHICLES BUILT IN THE
UNITED
STATES EVERY YEAR.
STATES EVERY YEAR.  <font
color="#ffff00">IT'S FAIR TO SAY
THIS IS
IT'S FAIR
TO SAY THIS IS  <font
color="#ffff00">PROBABLY THE
MOST COMPLEX
PROBABLY
THE MOST COMPLEX  <font
color="#ffff00">CONSUMER SAFETY
RECALL IN U.S.
CONSUMER
SAFETY RECALL IN U.S.
<font
color="#ffff00">HISTORY.
>> Ifill:
FOR MORE ON WHAT THE
MASSIVE
RECALL MIGHT MEAN FOR
TAKATA,
FOR AUTOMAKERS AND FOR
CAR
OWNERS, I'M JOINED BY
OWNERS, I'M JOINED BY MARK
<font
color="#ffff00">ROSEKIND, HEAD
ROSEKIND,
HEAD OF THE NATIONAL
HIGHWAY
TRAFFIC SAFETY
TRAFFIC SAFETY  <font
color="#ffff00">ADMINISTRATION.<
<font
THANK YOU
FOR JOIN US. <font
color="#ffff00">SO IN THE END,
OF ALL THESE
SO IN THE
END, OF ALL THESE  <font
color="#ffff00">MONTHS OF BACK
AND FORTH, WHAT
MONTHS OF
BACK AND FORTH, WHAT
DID TAKATA
FINALLY CONCEDE?
FINALLY CONCEDE?  <font
color="#ffff00">>> UP UNTIL THIS
POINT, THEY
>> UP
UNTIL THIS POINT, THEY
WERE
DENYING THERE WAS A
DENYING THERE WAS A DEFECT
AT
ALL SOME WHAT REALLY IS A
AT ALL
SOME WHAT REALLY IS A
HUGE STEP
FORWARD FOR SAFETY
FORWARD FOR SAFETY  <font
color="#ffff00">TODAY IS THEM
ACKNOWLEDGING
TODAY IS
THEM ACKNOWLEDGING  <font
color="#ffff00">THERE IS A
DEFLECT IN THEIR
THERE IS A
DEFLECT IN THEIR  <font
color="#ffff00">INFLATOR, THAT'S
FOR BOTH DRIVER
INFLATOR,
THAT'S FOR BOTH DRIVER
AS WELL AS
PASSENGER-SIDE AIR
PASSENGER-SIDE AIR <font
color="#ffff00">FORCE
BASES.
FORCE
BASES. <font
color="#ffff00">>> Ifill: WHEN
YOU SAY DEFECT,
>> Ifill:
WHEN YOU SAY DEFECT,
DO WE KNOW
WHAT THE CAUSE IS?
WHAT THE CAUSE IS?  <font
color="#ffff00">>> THAT'S
CRITICAL BECAUSE
>> THAT'S
CRITICAL BECAUSE  <font
color="#ffff00">WHAT'S BEEN
GOING ON IS THE
WHAT'S
BEEN GOING ON IS THE
SEARCH FOR
THAT ROOT CAUSE.
THAT ROOT CAUSE.  <font
color="#ffff00">WHILE WE HAVE
SOME HINT, WE
WHILE WE
HAVE SOME HINT, WE  <font
color="#ffff00">DON'T KNOW WHAT
THAT IS.
DON'T KNOW
WHAT THAT IS. <font
color="#ffff00">THAT WAS PART OF
THE PROBLEM.
THAT WAS
PART OF THE PROBLEM.
HOW LONG
DO YOU WAIT?
DO YOU WAIT? <font
color="#ffff00">WE MAY NOT HAVE
THE ROOT CAUSE,
WE MAY NOT
HAVE THE ROOT CAUSE,
BUT NOW WE
NEED TO GET A
NEED TO GET A  <font
color="#ffff00">SOLUTION EVEN IF
WE DON'T FULLY
SOLUTION
EVEN IF WE DON'T FULLY
UNDERSTAND
THE ROOT CAUSE AT
THE ROOT CAUSE AT <font
color="#ffff00">THIS
POINT.
THIS
POINT. <font
color="#ffff00">>> Ifill: IS IT
FAIR TO SAY
>> Ifill:
IS IT FAIR TO SAY  <font
color="#ffff00">THAT TAKATA'S
RESISTANCE WAS
THAT
TAKATA'S RESISTANCE WAS
ABOUT NOT
BEING ABLE TO PROVE
THAT THEY
HAD DONE ANYTHING
HAD DONE ANYTHING <font
color="#ffff00">WRONG?
<font
>> WELL, I
THINK THAT'S PART OF
WHAT WE'RE
HEARING, LIKE LET'S
DETERMINE
WHAT THE ROOT CAUSE
WHAT THE ROOT CAUSE <font
color="#ffff00">IS.
IS.
I'VE JUST
COME FROM THE N.T.S.B.
AS A BOARD
MEMBER.
MEMBER. <font
color="#ffff00">I CAN TELL YOU
IT TAKES A LONG
I CAN TELL
YOU IT TAKES A LONG
TIME TO
FIGURE THESE THINGS OUT.
IN THIS
CASE WE DON'T HAVE THAT
<font
color="#ffff00">TIME.
>> Ifill:
IF YOU DON'T KNOW
IF YOU DON'T KNOW  <font
color="#ffff00">THE CAUSE, THE
PROBLEM THAT
THE CAUSE,
THE PROBLEM THAT  <font
color="#ffff00">CREATED THIS,
THEN HOW DO YOU
CREATED
THIS, THEN HOW DO YOU
KNOW THAT
ANY SOLUTION YOU PUT
IN PLACE,
ANY REPLACEMENTS THAT
PEOPLE
APPLY FOR TO GET, HOW DO
YOU KNOW
THEY'RE SAFE?
THEY'RE SAFE?  <font
color="#ffff00">>> WELL THE WORK
PARTS.
>> WELL
THE WORK PARTS. <font
color="#ffff00">ONE IS WE HAVE
HINT, SO WE KNOW
ONE IS WE
HAVE HINT, SO WE KNOW
THERE ARE
SOME ISSUES ABOUT
SOME ISSUES ABOUT  <font
color="#ffff00">CHEMISTRY AND
MOISTURE AND
CHEMISTRY
AND MOISTURE AND <font
color="#ffff00">THINGS LIKE
THAT.
THINGS
LIKE THAT. <font
color="#ffff00">>> Ifill: TELL
ME WHAT YOU
>> Ifill:
TELL ME WHAT YOU <font
color="#ffff00">MEAN BY
THAT.
MEAN BY
THAT. <font
color="#ffff00">>> SOME OF THE
TESTING THAT'S
>> SOME OF
THE TESTING THAT'S  <font
color="#ffff00">BEEN DONE HAS
BEEN FOUND IN WHAT
BEEN DONE
HAS BEEN FOUND IN WHAT
EVERYONE
IS HEARING HIGH
IS HEARING HIGH  <font
color="#ffff00">HUMIDITY AREAS
SOME MOISTURE CAN
HUMIDITY
AREAS SOME MOISTURE CAN
GET INTO
SOME OF THEIR AIR BAGS.
THAT
CHANGES THE CHEMISTRY, SO
IT
BURNS FASTER AND HOTTER
IT BURNS
FASTER AND HOTTER THAN
IT
SHOULD.
SHOULD. <font
color="#ffff00">SO WHEN IT
INFLATES, IT
SO WHEN IT
INFLATES, IT <font
color="#ffff00">BASICALLY
EXPLODES.
BASICALLY
EXPLODES. <font
color="#ffff00">IT GOES HOTTER
THAN IT SHOULD.
IT GOES
HOTTER THAN IT SHOULD.
THAT'S HOW
YOU GET THINGS WITH
HIGHER
PRESSURE, BASICALLY
BREAKING
OUT AND SHREDDING THE
<font
color="#ffff00">METAL.
>> TO
REMIND PEOPLE, WHEN THIS
FIRST CAME
THE LIGHT, THERE WAS
WIDESPREAD
DISCUSSION THAT THIS
WAS ONLY
APPLICABLE IN HIGH
APPLICABLE IN HIGH  <font
color="#ffff00">HUMIDITY AREAS
IN THE AMERICAN
HUMIDITY
AREAS IN THE AMERICAN
SOUTH FOR
INSTANCE AND FLORIDA.
IS THAT NO
LONGER THE CASE?
LONGER THE CASE?  <font
color="#ffff00">>> SO THAT'S
EXACTLY WHAT THE
>> SO
THAT'S EXACTLY WHAT THE
ISSUE, IS
RIGHT, WHICH IS
RIGHT, WHICH IS  <font
color="#ffff00">EVERYBODY
IDENTIFIES IT.
EVERYBODY
IDENTIFIES IT. <font
color="#ffff00">YOU THINK YOU
HAVE A SENSE OF
YOU THINK
YOU HAVE A SENSE OF <font
color="#ffff00">THE ROOT
CAUSE.
THE ROOT
CAUSE. <font
color="#ffff00">CAN WE DEFINE
IT, CONSTRAIN IT
CAN WE
DEFINE IT, CONSTRAIN IT
TO A
PARTICULAR AREA?
PARTICULAR AREA? <font
color="#ffff00">THE PROBLEM IS
WE HAD TWO CASES
THE
PROBLEM IS WE HAD TWO
CASES <font
color="#ffff00">THAT DID NOT
THAT DID
NOT OCCUR IN  <font
color="#ffff00">HIGH-HUMIDITY
AREAS.
<font
color="#ffff00">HIGH-HUMIDITY
AREAS. <font
color="#ffff00">SO THAT KIND OF
SO THAT
KIND OF THROWS THAT OUT.
THAT'S
BEEN PART OF THE PROBLEM.
<font
color="#ffff00">MULTIPLE
MULTIPLE
VERSIONS OF THE AIR BAG
IN
MULTIPLE MAKES AND MODELS
OF <font
color="#ffff00">CARS.
<font
SO THAT
CONFUSES WHAT WE'RE
CONFUSES WHAT WE'RE <font
color="#ffff00">GOING
AFTER.
GOING
AFTER. <font
color="#ffff00">>> Ifill: SO IN
THE END YOU
>> Ifill:
SO IN THE END YOU  <font
color="#ffff00">HAVE TO BET
ONTHE IDEA THAT IT
HAVE TO
BET ONTHE IDEA THAT IT
MIGHT
HAPPEN AGAIN AND THAT'S
WORTH
TAKING THEM ALL OUT.
>> AND SO
TO... HOW YOU
TO... HOW YOU  <font
color="#ffff00">ORIGINALLY ASK
THAT QUESTION,
ORIGINALLY
ASK THAT QUESTION,  <font
color="#ffff00">PART OF WHAT'S
HAPPENED IS NOT
PART OF
WHAT'S HAPPENED IS NOT
JUST
IDENTIFYING THE DEFECT
IDENTIFYING THE DEFECT BUT
<font
color="#ffff00">THEM SIGNING AN
THEM
SIGNING AN AGREEMENT WITH
US THAT WE
WILL NOW BE
WILL NOW BE  <font
color="#ffff00">PARTICIPATING
AND DIRECTING AND
<font
color="#ffff00">PARTICIPATING
AND DIRECTING AND  <font
color="#ffff00">PROVIDE
PROVIDE
OVERSIGHT TO DETERMINING
THAT THE
REMEDY WORKS.
REMEDY WORKS. <font
color="#ffff00">>> Ifill: IN THE
PAST, THE
>> Ifill:
IN THE PAST, THE  <font
color="#ffff00">FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT HAS
FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT HAS  <font
color="#ffff00">INTERVENED WITH
CAR COMPANIES.
INTERVENED
WITH CAR COMPANIES.
WE'VE
HEARD OF MULTIPLE RECALLS
<font
color="#ffff00">FOR MULTIPLE
FOR
MULTIPLE REASON, WHETHER IT
<font
color="#ffff00">WAS AIR BAGS OR
WAS AIR
BAGS OR IGNITION SAFETY
<font
color="#ffff00">SWITCHES.
IT ALWAYS
INVOLVED THE COMPANIES
<font
color="#ffff00">THEMSELVES.</fon
color="#ffff00">THEMSELVES.
<font
color="#ffff00">THIS TIME
THIS TIME
YOURS <font
color="#ffff00">DIRECTLY WITH
THE SUPPLIER.
DIRECTLY
WITH THE SUPPLIER.  <font
color="#ffff00">THAT'S
DIFFERENT.
THAT'S
DIFFERENT. <font
color="#ffff00">>> THAT'S PART
OF WHAT THE
>> THAT'S
PART OF WHAT THE  <font
color="#ffff00">PROBLEM WAS
EARLIER IS BECAUSE
PROBLEM
WAS EARLIER IS BECAUSE
TAKATA WAS
DENYING THERE WAS
DENYING THERE WAS <font
color="#ffff00">ANYTHING GOING
ON.
ANYTHING
GOING ON.  <font
color="#ffff00">IT WAS THE TEN
AUTO
IT WAS THE
TEN AUTO  <font
color="#ffff00">MANUFACTURERS
WHO WERE USING
<font
color="#ffff00">MANUFACTURERS
WHO WERE USING  <font
color="#ffff00">THEIR INFLATORS
THEIR
INFLATORS WHO STEPPED UP
TO CALL...
TO BASICALLY RECALL
TO BASICALLY RECALL <font
color="#ffff00">THESE
VEHICLES.
THESE
VEHICLES. <font
color="#ffff00">SO IT'S VERY
DIFFERENT NOW TO
SO IT'S
VERY DIFFERENT NOW TO
HAVE THE
SUPPLIER STEP UP AND
THAT
TRIGGERS... THEIR
TRIGGERS... THEIR  <font
color="#ffff00">IDENTIFYING A
DEFECT NOW
<font
color="#ffff00">IDENTIFYING A
DEFECT NOW  <font
color="#ffff00">TRIGGERS THESE
TRIGGERS
THESE MANUFACTURE  <font
color="#ffff00">THERE'S HAVE TO
COME FORWARD AND
THERE'S
HAVE TO COME FORWARD AND
IDENTIFIED
VEHICLES IN ALL MAKES
AND MODELS
WHERE THEY'VE USED
WHERE THEY'VE USED <font
color="#ffff00">THE TAKATA
INFLATOR.
THE TAKATA
INFLATOR. <font
color="#ffff00">>> DOES THIS
MAKE TAKATA OR
>> DOES
THIS MAKE TAKATA OR
COMPANIES
LIABLE TO CONSUMER
LIABLE TO CONSUMER <font
color="#ffff00">COMPLAINTS?</fon
<font
>> THAT'S
OUTSIDE OUR VENUE.  <font
color="#ffff00">WE'LL STAY
FOCUSED ON THE SAFETY
WE'LL STAY
PART OF
THIS.
THIS. <font
color="#ffff00">BUT THERE IS NO
QUESTION THAT
BUT THERE
IS NO QUESTION THAT
COMING AND
MAKING AN OFFICIAL
MAKING AN OFFICIAL  <font
color="#ffff00">DECLARATION,
THERE WAS A DEFECT,
<font
color="#ffff00">DECLARATION,
THERE WAS A DEFECT,
CHANGES
THE LANDSCAPE BROADLY.
>>
I'.
I'. <font
color="#ffff00">DRIVING ONE OF
THESE CARS.
DRIVING
ONE OF THESE CARS. <font
color="#ffff00">WHAT DO I DO
NOW?
WHAT DO I
DO NOW? <font
color="#ffff00">>> THIS IS ONE
MOFTS IMPORTANT
>> THIS IS
ONE MOFTS IMPORTANT <font
color="#ffff00">THINGS WE CAN
DO.
THINGS WE
CAN DO.  <font
color="#ffff00">THERE IS A
VEHICLE
THERE IS A
VEHICLE  <font
color="#ffff00">IDENTIFICATION
NUMBER ON YOUR
<font
color="#ffff00">IDENTIFICATION
NUMBER ON YOUR <font
color="#ffff00">CAR.
<font
YOU CAN
LOOK IT UP.
LOOK IT UP.  <font
color="#ffff00">SAFER
CAR.GOV.
SAFER
CAR.GOV. <font
color="#ffff00">IT'S A WEB SITE
NHTSA RUNS.
IT'S A WEB
SITE NHTSA RUNS.  <font
color="#ffff00">YOU CAN LOOK IT
UP AND SEE
YOU CAN
LOOK IT UP AND SEE  <font
color="#ffff00">WHETHER OR NOT
YOU HAVE ANY
WHETHER OR
NOT YOU HAVE ANY  <font
color="#ffff00">RECALLS ON YOUR
VEHICLE.
RECALLS ON
YOUR VEHICLE. <font
color="#ffff00">IF YOU SEE THERE
IS AN AIR BAG
IF YOU SEE
THERE IS AN AIR BAG
PROBLEM,
YOU NEED TO CALL YOUR
DEALER AND
GET IT FIXED AS SOON
AS YOU
CAN.
CAN. <font
color="#ffff00">>> I RECALL
THERE WERE SOME
>> I
RECALL THERE WERE SOME
PROBLEMS
WITH SAFERCAR DT
WITH SAFERCAR DT <font
color="#ffff00">GOVERNOR
BEFORE.
GOVERNOR
BEFORE. <font
color="#ffff00">YOU SENT
CONSUMERS THERE AND
YOU SENT
THEY WENT
TO THE WRONG WEB SITE.
THEY
COULDN'T GET ANSWERS TO
THEIR
QUESTIONS.
QUESTIONS. <font
color="#ffff00">HAS THAT BEEN
FIXED?
HAS THAT
BEEN FIXED? <font
color="#ffff00">>> YES.
>>
YES. <font
color="#ffff00">IT'S A CHALLENGE
BECAUSE EVEN
IT'S A
CHALLENGE BECAUSE EVEN
NOW AS WE
GET THIS INFORMATION,
WE HAVE TO
RELY ON THE AUTO
RELY ON THE AUTO  <font
color="#ffff00">MANUFACTURERS TO
SEND US ALL THE
<font
color="#ffff00">MANUFACTURERS TO
SEND US ALL THE <font
color="#ffff00">INFORMATION
<font
THERE. <font
color="#ffff00">AND AS YOU
AND AS YOU
STARTED WITH THIS,  <font
color="#ffff00">WE'RE TALKING
ABOUT GOING FROM
WE'RE
TALKING ABOUT GOING FROM
17 TO AT
LEAST PROBABLY 34
LEAST PROBABLY 34 <font
color="#ffff00">MILLION
VEHICLES.
MILLION
VEHICLES. <font
color="#ffff00">SO WE'RE TALKING
ABOUT A HUGE
SO WE'RE
TALKING ABOUT A HUGE
LOAD AND
WE'RE PREPARING THE
WE'RE PREPARING THE <font
color="#ffff00">SYSTEM TO HANDLE
THAT.
SYSTEM TO
HANDLE THAT. <font
color="#ffff00">>> Ifill: LET'S
ASSUME FOR A
>> Ifill:
LET'S ASSUME FOR A  <font
color="#ffff00">MOMENT THAT
EVERYONE GOES
MOMENT
THAT EVERYONE GOES  <font
color="#ffff00">THROUGH THE WEB
SITE AND THEY
THROUGH
THE WEB SITE AND THEY
PUT IN FOR
THEIR REPLACEMENT AIR
BAGS AND
THEN THEY GET TO THEIR
DEALER AND
THEY SAY, WELL,
THEY SAY, WELL,  <font
color="#ffff00">THEY'RE BACK
ORDERED.
THEY'RE
BACK ORDERED. <font
color="#ffff00">WE DON'T HAVE
THEM IN STOCK,
WE DON'T
HAVE THEM IN STOCK, <font
color="#ffff00">WHAT TO DO
THEN?
WHAT TO DO
THEN? <font
color="#ffff00">>> SO THIS IS
EXACTLY WHY WE
>> SO THIS
IS EXACTLY WHY WE <font
color="#ffff00">HAVE A MAJOR
CONCERN.
HAVE A
MAJOR CONCERN. <font
color="#ffff00">THIS IS... WE'RE
CALLING THIS
THIS IS...
WE'RE CALLING THIS <font
color="#ffff00">LARGE AND
COMPLEX.
LARGE AND
COMPLEX.  <font
color="#ffff00">IT'S NOT THE
NUMBERS.
IT'S NOT
THE NUMBERS. <font
color="#ffff00">THE COMPLEX
PIECE IS MAKING THE
THE
COMPLEX PIECE IS MAKING THE
<font
color="#ffff00">SUPPLIES
SUPPLIES
AVAILABLE AS QUICKLY AS
WE
CAN.
CAN. <font
color="#ffff00">SO THAT'S WHY IN
THIS AGREEMENT,
SO THAT'S
WHY IN THIS AGREEMENT,
NHTSA WILL
HAVE A CENTRAL ROLE
IN
PRIORITIZING, ORGANIZING
PRIORITIZING, ORGANIZING AND
<font
color="#ffff00">PHASING IN TO
PHASING IN
TO MAKE SURE THE MOST
HIGH RISK
GET THEM AS SOON AS
GET THEM AS SOON AS <font
color="#ffff00">POSSIBLE.
<font
SO YOU THE
INDIVIDUAL DRIVER
INDIVIDUAL DRIVER <font
color="#ffff00">KEEP
DRIVING.
KEEP
DRIVING. <font
color="#ffff00">KEEP CALLING
YOUR DEALER SO AS
KEEP
CALLING YOUR DEALER SO AS
SOON AS
THEY HAVE THAT
THEY HAVE THAT  <font
color="#ffff00">REPLACEMENT YOU
GET IT IN YOUR
<font
color="#ffff00">REPLACEMENT YOU
GET IT IN YOUR <font
color="#ffff00">CAR.
<font
>> HOW DO
YOU MEASURE WHO IS AT
MOST
RISK?
RISK? <font
color="#ffff00">>> AGAIN, THE
LITTLE BIT OF ROOT
>> AGAIN,
THE LITTLE BIT OF ROOT
CAUSE WORK
THAT'S BEEN DONE.
THAT'S BEEN DONE.  <font
color="#ffff00">WE KNOW AGE IS A
PROBLEM.
WE KNOW
AGE IS A PROBLEM.  <font
color="#ffff00">WE KNOW
GEOGRAPHY.
WE KNOW
GEOGRAPHY. <font
color="#ffff00">WE KNOW
ENVIRONMENT AND WE KNOW
WE KNOW
DRIVER
VERSUS PASSENGER.
VERSUS PASSENGER. <font
color="#ffff00">SO THERE ARE
SOME THINGS WE KNOW
SO THERE
ARE SOME THINGS WE KNOW
WHERE THE
HIGHEST RISK WOULD BE,
JUST WANT
TO MAKE SURE THOSE
TO MAKE SURE THOSE <font
color="#ffff00">PEOPLE GET IT
FIRST.
PEOPLE GET
IT FIRST. <font
color="#ffff00">MARK ROSEKIND,
HEAD OF THE
MARK
ROSEKIND, HEAD OF THE
NATIONAL
HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY
<font
color="#ffff00">ADMINISTRATION.<
color="#ffff00">ADMINISTRATION.
<font
color="#ffff00">THANK
THANK
YOU. <font
color="#ffff00">>> THANK
YOU.
>> Ifill:
NOW TO HILLARY  <font
color="#ffff00">CLINTON'S
EMAILS.
CLINTON'S
EMAILS. <font
color="#ffff00">THE FORMER
SECRETARY OF STATE,
THE FORMER
AND
DEMOCRATIC PRESIDENTIAL
CANDIDATE,
TOOK QUESTIONS TODAY
FOR THE
FIRST TIME IN MONTHS.
>> I WANT
THOSE E-MAILS OUT.
THOSE E-MAILS OUT.  <font
color="#ffff00">NOBODY HAS A
BIGGER INTEREST IN
NOBODY HAS
A BIGGER INTEREST IN
GETTING
THEM RELEASED THAN I DO.
>> Ifill:
CANDIDATE CLINTON WAS
<font
color="#ffff00">CAMPAIGNING IN
CEDAR FALLS, IOWA  <font
color="#ffff00">AS A FEDERAL
AS A
FEDERAL JUDGE IN WASHINGTON
<font
color="#ffff00">ORDERED THE
ORDERED
THE STATE DEPARTMENT TO
SPEED UP
ITS PLAN TO RELEASE
ITS PLAN TO RELEASE <font
color="#ffff00">55,000
E-MAILS.
55,000
E-MAILS. <font
color="#ffff00">DEPARTMENT, THEY
HAVE THEIR
<font
color="#ffff00">DEPARTMENT, THEY
HAVE THEIR  <font
color="#ffff00">>> I RESPECT THE
>> I
RESPECT THE STATE  <font
color="#ffff00">DEPARTMENT, THEY
HAVE THEIR
<font
color="#ffff00">DEPARTMENT, THEY
HAVE THEIR  <font
color="#ffff00">PROCESS THAT
PROCESS
THAT THEY DO FOR  <font
color="#ffff00">EVERYBODY, NOT
JUST FOR ME.
EVERYBODY,
NOT JUST FOR ME. <font
color="#ffff00">BUT ANYTHING
THAT THEY MIGHT DO
BUT
ANYTHING THAT THEY MIGHT
DO <font
color="#ffff00">TO EXPEDITE THAT
TO
EXPEDITE THAT PROCESS, I
HEARTILY
SUPPORT.
SUPPORT. <font
color="#ffff00">>> Ifill: THE
WRANGLING OVER
>> Ifill:
THE WRANGLING OVER  <font
color="#ffff00">CLINTON'S
EMAILS-- PRIVATE AND
CLINTON'S
PUBLIC,
OFFICIAL AND PERSONAL--
HAS
CONTINUED FOR MONTHS.
IN EARLY
MARCH, CLINTON REVEALED
SHE USED A
PRIVATE, NON-
PRIVATE, NON-  <font
color="#ffff00">GOVERNMENT
ACCOUNT FOR OFFICIAL
GOVERNMENT
<font
color="#ffff00">CORRESPONDENCE
DURING HER FOUR <font
color="#ffff00">YEARS AS
YEARS AS
SECRETARY. <font
color="#ffff00">DAYS LATER CAME
NEWS THAT SHE'D
DAYS LATER
CAME NEWS THAT SHE'D
ALSO USED
A PRIVATE SERVER,
A PRIVATE SERVER,  <font
color="#ffff00">SEPARATE FROM
THE STATE
SEPARATE
FROM THE STATE  <font
color="#ffff00">DEPARTMENT
ACCOUNT, SINCE 2009,
DEPARTMENT
SHORTLY
BEFORE SHE TOOK OFFICE
AS
SECRETARY OF STATE.
SECRETARY OF STATE. <font
color="#ffff00">CLINTON THEN
ANNOUNCED SHE HAD
CLINTON
THEN ANNOUNCED SHE HAD
TURNED
OVER 30,000 WORK-RELATED
E-MAILS TO
STATE, AND DELETED
STATE, AND DELETED  <font
color="#ffff00">ANOTHER 31,000
SHE DEEMED
ANOTHER
31,000 SHE DEEMED <font
color="#ffff00">"PERSONAL."</fon
<font
THAT
ANNOUNCEMENT CAME AT A
MARCH NEWS
CONFERENCE.
CONFERENCE. <font
color="#ffff00">SINCE THEN,
CLINTON HAD NOT
SINCE
THEN, CLINTON HAD NOT
ADDRESSED
THE ISSUE AGAIN, OR
TAKEN
SUBSTANTIVE QUESTIONS
FROM <font
color="#ffff00">REPORTERS, UNTIL
REPORTERS,
UNTIL TODAY. <font
color="#ffff00">>> I THINK IT
WILL SHOW HOW HARD
>> I THINK
IT WILL SHOW HOW HARD
WE WORKED
AND WHAT WE DID, FOR
OUR
COUNTRY DURING THE TIME
COUNTRY DURING THE TIME THAT
I
WAS SECRETARY OF STATE WHERE
I WAS
SECRETARY OF STATE WHERE I
<font
color="#ffff00">WORKED EXTREMELY
WORKED
EXTREMELY HARD ON BEHALF
OF OUR
VALUES AND OUR INTERESTS
AND OUR
SECURITY.
SECURITY. <font
color="#ffff00">AND THE EMAILS
ARE A PART OF
AND THE
EMAILS ARE A PART OF
<font
color="#ffff00">THAT.
SO I HAVE
SAID PUBLICLY, I'M
SAID PUBLICLY, I'M  <font
color="#ffff00">REPEATING IT
HERE IN FRONT OF
REPEATING
IT HERE IN FRONT OF
ALL OF YOU
TODAY, I WANT THEM
TODAY, I WANT THEM <font
color="#ffff00">OUT AS SOON AS
THEY CAN GET OUT.
OUT AS
SOON AS THEY CAN GET OUT.
>>
Ifill: THE STATE
>> Ifill:
THE STATE DEPARTMENT
RECEIVED
THE E-MAILS IN PAPER
FORM AND
WANTED MUCH MORE TIME
TO GO
THROUGH THEM.
THROUGH THEM. <font
color="#ffff00">BUT THE JUDGE
HAS NOW ORDERED A
BUT THE
JUDGE HAS NOW ORDERED A
QUICKER,
ROLLING RELEASE.
ROLLING RELEASE.  <font
color="#ffff00">DEPARTMENT
SPOKESMAN JEFF
DEPARTMENT
SPOKESMAN JEFF <font
color="#ffff00">RATHKE.
<font
>> WE HAVE
A LARGE VOLUME OF
A LARGE VOLUME OF  <font
color="#ffff00">RECORDS THAT
COVER THE ENTIRE
RECORDS
THAT COVER THE ENTIRE
SPAN OF
SECRETARY CLINTON'S TIME
AT THE
DEPARTMENT.
DEPARTMENT. <font
color="#ffff00">SO I'M SURE YOU
CAN IMAGINE THIS
SO I'M
SURE YOU CAN IMAGINE THIS
<font
color="#ffff00">COULD COVER
COULD
COVER PRETTY MUCH ANY
<font
color="#ffff00">TOPIC.
IT COULD
COVER ANY TOPIC ON OUR
AND SO
THERE WOULD ALSO BE A
QUESTION
OF IF CERTAIN THINGS
WERE
RELEASED EARLY, YOU COULD
<font
color="#ffff00">HAVE OTHER
HAVE OTHER
RECORDS PERTINENT  <font
color="#ffff00">AGAIN, WE'VE GOT
A COURT ORDER,
AGAIN,
WE'VE GOT A COURT ORDER,
AN ORDER
THAT SAYS DIFFERENTLY,
SO WE'RE
GOING TO COMPLY WITH
IT.
>> Ifill:
A SEPARATE ORDER
A SEPARATE ORDER  <font
color="#ffff00">INVOLVES 300
E-MAILS ON
INVOLVES
300 E-MAILS ON  <font
color="#ffff00">BENGHAZI, THE
FATAL 2012 ATTACK
BENGHAZI,
THE FATAL 2012 ATTACK
ON U.S.
DIPLOMATS IN LIBYA.
DIPLOMATS IN LIBYA. <font
color="#ffff00">THE STATE
DEPARTMENT HAS UNTIL
THE STATE
NEXT WEEK
TO PROVIDE A SCHEDULE
FOR
RELEASING THOSE.
RELEASING THOSE. <font
color="#ffff00">IN THE MEANTIME,
QUESTIONS
IN THE
MEANTIME, QUESTIONS
<font
color="#ffff00">CONTINUEABOUT
SPEAKING FEES THE <font
color="#ffff00">CLINTONS HAVE
CLINTONS
HAVE EARNED, $25  <font
color="#ffff00">MILLION JUST
SINCE JANUARY OF
MILLION
JUST SINCE JANUARY OF
2014, AND
POTENTIAL CONFLICTS OF
<font
color="#ffff00">INTEREST.
STILL,
POLLING SUGGESTS THE
LINGERING
QUESTIONS HAVE NOT YET
DENTED
HILLARY CLINTON'S
HILLARY CLINTON'S  <font
color="#ffff00">POPULARITY AMONG
DEMOCRATS.
POPULARITY
AMONG DEMOCRATS. <font
color="#ffff00">>> Ifill:
JOINING US TO DISCUSS
>> Ifill:
WHAT THESE
QUESTIONS MEAN FOR
QUESTIONS MEAN FOR <font
color="#ffff00">THE
CAMPAIGN:
THE
CAMPAIGN: <font
color="#ffff00">MATEA GOLD OF
THE WASHINGTON
MATEA GOLD
OF THE WASHINGTON  <font
color="#ffff00">POST AND, JUST
OUTSIDE DES
POST AND,
JUST OUTSIDE DES  <font
color="#ffff00">MOINES, PETER
NICHOLAS OF THE
MOINES,
PETER NICHOLAS OF THE
WALL
STREET JOURNAL.
STREET JOURNAL. <font
color="#ffff00">PETER NICHOLAS,
YOU WERE AT THAT
PETER
NICHOLAS, YOU WERE AT THAT
<font
color="#ffff00">IMPROMPTU, RARE
IMPROMPTU,
RARE NEWS CONFERENCE
THAT
HILLARY CLINTON GAVE
TODAY <font
color="#ffff00">IN IOWA.
IN
IOWA. <font
color="#ffff00">WHY THE DELAY AS
YOU UNDERSTAND
WHY THE
DELAY AS YOU UNDERSTAND
IT
ORIGINALLY IN THE REASEEL
OF <font
color="#ffff00">ALL THESE
ALL THESE
E-MAILS? <font
color="#ffff00">>> WELL, THE
STATE DEPARTMENT
>> WELL,
THE STATE DEPARTMENT
HAS SAID
IT TAKES TIME TO GO
THROUGH
ALL THESE E-MAILS.
ALL THESE E-MAILS.  <font
color="#ffff00">THEY HAVE 55,000
PAGES OF
THEY HAVE
55,000 PAGES OF  <font
color="#ffff00">DOCUMENTS TO GO
THROUGH.
DOCUMENTS
TO GO THROUGH. <font
color="#ffff00">IT REQUIRES A
LOT OF VETTING.
IT
REQUIRES A LOT OF VETTING.
<font
color="#ffff00">INPUT HAS TO
INPUT HAS
TO COME IN FROM OTHER
<font
color="#ffff00">AGENCIES.
THERE HAS
TO BE AN UNDERSTANDING
REACHED
ABOUT WHAT NEEDS TO BE
REDACTED,
WHAT MIGHT BE
WHAT MIGHT BE  <font
color="#ffff00">CLASSIFIED OR
SENSITIVE.
CLASSIFIED
OR SENSITIVE.  <font
color="#ffff00">SO ALL THIS
TAKES TIME.
SO ALL
THIS TAKES TIME. <font
color="#ffff00">THE DEPARTMENT
HEAD WANTED TO
THE
DEPARTMENT HEAD WANTED TO
<font
color="#ffff00">RELEASE ALL THIS
RELEASE
ALL THIS IN JANUARY.
THE JUDGE
ORDERED THAT IT BE
ORDERED THAT IT BE  <font
color="#ffff00">DONE ON A
ROLLING BASIS THAT
DONE ON A
ROLLING BASIS THAT  <font
color="#ffff00">COULD BEGIN AS
EARLY AS JULY.
COULD
BEGIN AS EARLY AS JULY.
AND THIS
CAN'T BE SEEN AS GOOD
NEWS FOR
THE HILLARY CLINTON
CAMPAIGN
IN THE SENSE THAT
IN THE SENSE THAT  <font
color="#ffff00">WHATEVER MESSAGE
SHE'S TRYING TO
WHATEVER
MESSAGE SHE'S TRYING TO
PUT OUT ON
A GIVEN DAY ABOUT THE
MIDDLE
CLASS, ABOUT RAISING
WAGE,
ABOUT JOB GROWTH IS GOING
TO
BE TRUMPED TO SOME DEGREE
TO BE
TRUMPED TO SOME DEGREE BY
<font
color="#ffff00">THE CONTENT OF
THE
CONTENT OF THESE E-MAILS.
<font
color="#ffff00">REPORTERS ARE
REPORTERS
ARE GOING TO BE <font
color="#ffff00">SCOURING
THEM.
SCOURING
THEM. <font
color="#ffff00">OPPOSITION
RESEARCHERS, OTHER
OPPOSITION
RESEARCHERS, OTHER <font
color="#ffff00">CANDIDATES.</fon
<font
THESE
E-MAIL RELEASES ARE GOING
TO
BE A BIG STORY EVERY TIME
TO BE A
BIG STORY EVERY TIME
THEY'RE
RELEASED.
RELEASED. <font
color="#ffff00">>> HOW DID THE
FEDERAL COURT GET
>> HOW DID
THE FEDERAL COURT GET
INVOLVED
IN THIS AT ALL?
IN THIS AT ALL? <font
color="#ffff00">>> WELL, THERE
WAS A LAWSUIT
>> WELL,
THERE WAS A LAWSUIT <font
color="#ffff00">THAT WAS
FILED.
THAT WAS
FILED. <font
color="#ffff00">THERE'S BEEN
MULTIPLE LAWSUITS,
THERE'S
BEEN MULTIPLE LAWSUITS,
FREEDOMF
INFORMATION ACT
INFORMATION ACT  <font
color="#ffff00">REQUEST LAWSUIT,
PUBLIC
REQUEST
LAWSUIT, PUBLIC  <font
color="#ffff00">INFORMATION ACT
LAWSUITS FILED
<font
color="#ffff00">INFORMATION ACT
LAWSUITS FILED <font
color="#ffff00">FOR THESE
FOR THESE
E-MAILS. <font
color="#ffff00">VICE NEWS IN
THIS PARTICULAR
VICE NEWS
IN THIS PARTICULAR  <font
color="#ffff00">CASE FILED OUT
ASKING FOR THESE
CASE FILED
OUT ASKING FOR THESE
E-MAIL,
AND THAT GAVE RISE TO
THE
JUDGE'S RULING.
JUDGE'S RULING. <font
color="#ffff00">>> Ifill: IF
HILLARY CLINTON
>> Ifill:
IF HILLARY CLINTON  <font
color="#ffff00">SAYS TODAY LIKE
SHE DID TODAY
SAYS TODAY
LIKE SHE DID TODAY  <font
color="#ffff00">THAT SHE WOULD
LIKE TO SEE THESE
THAT SHE
WOULD LIKE TO SEE THESE
E-MAILS
MADE PUBLIC, WHY CAN'T
SHE JUST
RELEASE THEM?
RELEASE THEM? <font
color="#ffff00">>> WELL, SHE
SAYS SHE HAS GIVEN
>> WELL,
SHE SAYS SHE HAS GIVEN
THESE
E-MAILS TO THE STATE
<font
color="#ffff00">DEPARTMENT.</fon
THEY'RE
NOW IN THE CUSTODY OF
THE STATE
DEPARTMENT.
DEPARTMENT. <font
color="#ffff00">THE STATE
DEPARTMENT HAS TO DO
THE STATE
ITS
REVIEW.
REVIEW. <font
color="#ffff00">SHE CAN'T ORDER
OR DEMAND THE
SHE CAN'T
ORDER OR DEMAND THE
STATE
DEPARTMENT DO THAT.
DEPARTMENT DO THAT. <font
color="#ffff00">THEY HAVE TO DO
IT ACCORDING TO
THEY HAVE
TO DO IT ACCORDING TO
THEIR OWN
PROCEDURES AND PROCESS
<font
color="#ffff00">SEIZE.
AS A
PRIVATE SITS NOW, SHE
PRIVATE SITS NOW, SHE CAN'T
<font
color="#ffff00">INFLUENCE THE
INFLUENCE
THE DEPARTMENT AS SHE
ONCE CROWD
AS SECRETARY OF
AS SECRETARY OF <font
color="#ffff00">STATE.
<font
SO SHE'S
URGING THEM ON, SAYING
SHE WANTS
THIS TO HAPPEN, BUT
SHE'S
SAYING IT'S NOW A STATE
<font
color="#ffff00">DEPARTMENT-CONTR
>> Ifill:
MATEA GOLD, THE  <font
color="#ffff00">OTHER CLOUD
HANGING OVER THIS
OTHER
CLOUD HANGING OVER THIS
CAMPAIGN
THAT NEVER SEEMS TO GO
AWAY, THE
MONEY, HOW THE
MONEY, HOW THE  <font
color="#ffff00">CLINTONS EARNED
THEIR MONEY AND
CLINTONS
EARNED THEIR MONEY AND
IN SOME
CASES HOW THEY SPENT IT,
BUT MOSTLY
HOW THEY EARNED IT,
$30
MILLION IN SPEECHES IN
MILLION IN SPEECHES IN EIGHT
<font
color="#ffff00">MONTHS OR
MONTHS OR
SOMETHING LIKE THAT.
WHERE IS
THE MONEY COMING FROM?
>> SO
FRIDAY NIGHT WE GOT OUR
FIRST LOOK
AT HOW HILLARY
AT HOW HILLARY  <font
color="#ffff00">CLINTON HAS BEEN
EARNING HER
CLINTON
HAS BEEN EARNING HER
MONEY IN
THE 15-MONTH RUN-UP TO
HER
ANNOUNCING HER
ANNOUNCING HER PRESIDENTIAL
<font
color="#ffff00">CAMPAIGN, MOSTLY
CAMPAIGN,
MOSTLY THROUGH <font
color="#ffff00">SPEECHES.
<font
SHE
PERSONALLY EARNED $11.7
MILLION ON
THE LECTURE CIRCUIT,
AN
ENORMOUS SUM OF MONEY BY
ANY <font
color="#ffff00">STRETCH.
<font
WE LOOKED
AT THE TOP SECTORS WHO
ARE GIVING
HER MONEY, AND
HER MONEY, AND  <font
color="#ffff00">TECHNOLOGY
COMPANIES REALLY WERE
TECHNOLOGY
SEEKING
HER TO COME AS A SPEAKER
FOR THEIR
COMPANY EVENTS.
COMPANY EVENTS.  <font
color="#ffff00">THEY WERE REALLY
THE PRIME
THEY WERE
REALLY THE PRIME  <font
color="#ffff00">INDUSTRY THAT
HIRED HER.
INDUSTRY
THAT HIRED HER.  <font
color="#ffff00">>> Ifill: WERE
THESE
>> Ifill:
WERE THESE  <font
color="#ffff00">TECHNOLOGY
COMPANIES WHO HAD
TECHNOLOGY
COMPANIES WHO HAD  <font
color="#ffff00">BUSINESS BEFORE
THE STATE
BUSINESS
BEFORE THE STATE  <font
color="#ffff00">DEPARTMENT WHEN
SHE WAS
DEPARTMENT
WHEN SHE WAS  <font
color="#ffff00">SECRETARY OF
STATE?
SECRETARY
OF STATE? <font
color="#ffff00">>> THESE ARE
TECHNOLOGY
>> THESE
ARE TECHNOLOGY  <font
color="#ffff00">COMPANIES THAT
ARE SOME OF THE
COMPANIES
THAT ARE SOME OF THE
BIGGEST
PLAYERS IN SILICON
PLAYERS IN SILICON  <font
color="#ffff00">VALLEY AND IN
GLOBAL INTERNET
VALLEY AND
IN GLOBAL INTERNET  <font
color="#ffff00">COMMERCE AND
SOFTWARE, SO WE'RE
COMMERCE
AND SOFTWARE, SO WE'RE
TALKING
ABOUT XEROX AND CISCO
AND EBAY,
COMPANIES THAT HAVE
MYRIAD OF
POLICY CONCERNS AND
ISSUES,
AND WHAT'S REALLY
AND WHAT'S REALLY  <font
color="#ffff00">INTERESTING IS
THEY HAVE
<font
color="#ffff00">INTERESTING IS
THEY HAVE  <font
color="#ffff00">CONNECTIONS,
<font
MANY OF THEIR TOP  <font
color="#ffff00">EXECUTIVES OR
EXECUTIVES
OR SENIOR LEADERSHIP
ARE ALSO
EARLY AND AVID
EARLY AND AVID  <font
color="#ffff00">SUPPORTERS OFFER
PRESIDENTIAL
SUPPORTERS
OFFER PRESIDENTIAL <font
color="#ffff00">CAMPAIGN.
<font
>> SO
THEY'RE PAYING HEARSE
PERSONALLY
ONE ON ONE FOR THESE
SPEECHES
AND RAISING MONEY FOR
HER
CAMPAIGN?
CAMPAIGN? <font
color="#ffff00">>> AND WHAT'S
UNIQUE IS WE HAVE
>> AND
WHAT'S UNIQUE IS WE HAVE
SEEN
FORMER PRESIDENTS GO OUT
FORMER PRESIDENTS GO OUT ON
<font
color="#ffff00">THE SPEAKING
THE
SPEAKING CIRCUIT AND EARN
<font
color="#ffff00">HIGH FEES, BUT
HIGH FEES,
BUT IT'S REALLY RARE
TO SEE
SOMEONE DIRECTLY IN THE
RUN-UP TO
A PRESIDENTIAL
A PRESIDENTIAL  <font
color="#ffff00">CAMPAIGN
SPEAKING BEFORE
CAMPAIGN
SPEAKING BEFORE  <font
color="#ffff00">INDUSTRY GROUPS
AND COMMANDING
INDUSTRY
GROUPS AND COMMANDING
SUCH LARGE
AMOUNTS OF MONEY.
AMOUNTS OF MONEY.  <font
color="#ffff00">>> Ifill: ALSO
RARE FOR A
>> Ifill:
ALSO RARE FOR A <font
color="#ffff00">FIRST LADY TO
RUN FOR PRESIDENT.
FIRST LADY
TO RUN FOR PRESIDENT.
IN THESE
SPEECH, WHAT DOES SHE
TALK
ABOUT, THINGS THAT OFTEN
BECOME
THEMES IN HER CAMPAIGN OR
DO WE EVEN
KNOW?
KNOW? <font
color="#ffff00">>> MANY OF THESE
SPEECHES WERE
>> MANY OF
THESE SPEECHES WERE <font
color="#ffff00">CLOSED.
<font
A FEW WERE
OPEN.
OPEN. <font
color="#ffff00">SOME DETAILS
HAVE COME OUT.
SOME
DETAILS HAVE COME OUT.
SHE
DEFINITELY WAS TESTING
SOME <font
color="#ffff00">THEMES FOR HER
THEMES FOR
HER CAMPAIGN. <font
color="#ffff00">WE SAW HER TALK
ABOUT INCOME
WE SAW HER
TALK ABOUT INCOME  <font
color="#ffff00">INEQUALITY IN
SEVERAL SPEECH,
INEQUALITY
IN SEVERAL SPEECH,  <font
color="#ffff00">AND WHEN SHE
WENT TO SILICON
AND WHEN
SHE WENT TO SILICON
VALLEY,
SHE WAS SPEAKING
SHE WAS SPEAKING  <font
color="#ffff00">SPECIFICALLY
ABOUT ISSUES OF
<font
color="#ffff00">SPECIFICALLY
ABOUT ISSUES OF  <font
color="#ffff00">CONCERN TO THE
CONCERN TO
THE TECH SECTOR, SO <font
color="#ffff00">TALKING ABOUT
ISSUES ABOUT
TALKING
ABOUT ISSUES ABOUT  <font
color="#ffff00">GOVERNMENT
SURVEILLANCE, WHICH
GOVERNMENT
IS REALLY
HOT-BUTTON ISSUE IN
THAT
INDUSTRY, TALKING ABOUT
ISSUES OF
IMMIGRATION, TALKING
ABOUT
ISSUES OF TAX
ISSUES OF TAX <font
color="#ffff00">REPATRIATION.</f
<font
THESE ARE
CLEARLY THINGS THAT
THE NEXT
PRESIDENT'S GOING TO
HAVE IN
HIS OR HER PORTFOLIO.
>> Ifill:
AS FAR AS WE KNOW AT
THIS
STAGE, IS ANY OF THE
STAGE, IS ANY OF THE MONEY
<font
color="#ffff00">SHE'S ACCEPTED
SHE'S
ACCEPTED EVEN BORDERLINE
<font
color="#ffff00">ILLEGAL?
>> THERE'S
NOTHING ILLEGAL ABOUT
HER
ACCEPTING THESE FEES, BUT
I <font
color="#ffff00">THINK IT RAISES
THINK IT
RAISES A LOT OF  <font
color="#ffff00">QUESTIONS ABOUT
POTENTIAL
QUESTIONS
ABOUT POTENTIAL  <font
color="#ffff00">CONFLICTS OF
INTEREST AS SHE'S
CONFLICTS
OF INTEREST AS SHE'S
ALSO
RAISING MONEY FOR HER
CAMPAIGN
AND WHAT WOULD HAPPEN
ONCE SHE'S
PRESIDENT AND THESE
INDUSTRIES
THAT HAD PAID HER
THAT HAD PAID HER  <font
color="#ffff00">PERSONALLY A LOT
OF MONEY HAVE
PERSONALLY
A LOT OF MONEY HAVE
INTERESTS
IN WHAT THE WHITE
IN WHAT THE WHITE <font
color="#ffff00">HOUSE
DOES.
HOUSE
DOES. <font
color="#ffff00">>> LET'S GO BACK
TO PETE MEET IN
>> LET'S
GO BACK TO PETE MEET IN
DES
MOINES.
MOINES. <font
color="#ffff00">IN GENERAL, I
WANT TO ASK YOU
IN
GENERAL, I WANT TO ASK YOU
<font
color="#ffff00">BOTH ABOUT THE
BOTH ABOUT
THE CLOUD THAT NEVER
SEEMS TO
GO AWAY IN THE CLINTON
<font
color="#ffff00">CAMPAIGN.
AT THE
ROOT OF THESE E-MAILS IS
THE BANK
OF ENGLAND -- BENGHAZI
<font
color="#ffff00">INVESTIGATION
WHICH ALSO NEVER <font
color="#ffff00">GOES
GOES AWAY.
>>
RIGHT.
RIGHT. <font
color="#ffff00">THE BENGHAZI
INVESTIGATION IS
THE
BENGHAZI INVESTIGATION IS
<font
color="#ffff00">BEING LED BY
BEING LED
BY TREY GOWDY, A  <font
color="#ffff00">REPUBLICAN HOUSE
MEMBER FROM
REPUBLICAN
HOUSE MEMBER FROM <font
color="#ffff00">SOUTH
CAROLINA.
SOUTH
CAROLINA. <font
color="#ffff00">HE'S DETERMINED
TO HAVE HILLARY
HE'S
DETERMINED TO HAVE HILLARY
<font
color="#ffff00">CLINTON COME
CLINTON
COME TESTIFY BEFORE HIS
MMITTEE,
TALK ABOUT THE E-MAIL
ISSUE, HER
UNUSUAL USE OF E-MAIL
PRACTICES
WHERE SHE DID NOT HAVE
A
STATE.GOV ACCOUNT.
STATE.GOV ACCOUNT. <font
color="#ffff00">SHE USED A
PRIVATE ACCOUNT AND A
SHE USED A
PRIVATE
SERVER, AS YOU MENTIONED
IN YOUR
EARLIER REPORT.
EARLIER REPORT. <font
color="#ffff00">HE WANTS THE
TALK TO HER ABOUT
HE WANTS
THE TALK TO HER ABOUT
THIS AND
ABOUT THE BENGHAZI
ABOUT THE BENGHAZI  <font
color="#ffff00">INVESTIGATION
HE'S LOOKING INTO,
<font
color="#ffff00">INVESTIGATION
HE'S LOOKING INTO,  <font
color="#ffff00">WHAT ROLE SHE
WHAT ROLE
SHE PLAYED, WHAT  <font
color="#ffff00">DECISIONS SHE
MADE, AND THIS IS
DECISIONS
SHE MADE, AND THIS IS
GOING TO
BE A DIFFICULT MOMENT
<font
color="#ffff00">POTENTIALLY FOR
HER. <font
color="#ffff00">SHE'S GOING TO
SHE'S
GOING TO BE TESTIFYING
BEFORE A
COMMITTEE LED BY
COMMITTEE LED BY  <font
color="#ffff00">REPUBLICANS WHO
ARE NOT FRIENDLY
<font
color="#ffff00">REPUBLICANS WHO
ARE NOT FRIENDLY  <font
color="#ffff00">TO HER AND DON'T
TO HER AND
DON'T WANT TO SEE HER
IN THE
WHITE HOUSE.
WHITE HOUSE. <font
color="#ffff00">THIS COULD BE
PROBLEMATIC.
THIS COULD
BE PROBLEMATIC.  <font
color="#ffff00">>> Ifill: AS HAS
BEEN
>> Ifill:
AS HAS BEEN  <font
color="#ffff00">MENTIONED BEFORE
ON THIS
MENTIONED
BEFORE ON THIS  <font
color="#ffff00">PROGRAM, SHE HAS
NOT GIVEN A LOT
PROGRAM,
SHE HAS NOT GIVEN A LOT
OF ANSWERS
TO REPORTERS OR
TO REPORTERS OR  <font
color="#ffff00">ANSWERED MANY
QUESTIONS.
ANSWERED
MANY QUESTIONS. <font
color="#ffff00">TODAY WAS IT A
SURPRISE AND DOES
TODAY WAS
IT A SURPRISE AND DOES
IT BETRAY
ANY KIND OF
ANY KIND OF  <font
color="#ffff00">NERVOUSNESS
ABOUT THESE
<font
color="#ffff00">NERVOUSNESS
ABOUT THESE <font
color="#ffff00">QUESTIONS?</font
<font
>> IT WAS
AN INTERESTING MOMENT,
<font
color="#ffff00">GWEN.
I WAS
THERE AT THE EVENT.
THERE AT THE EVENT. <font
color="#ffff00">I WAS NOT
EXPECTING HER THE TAKE
I WAS NOT
<font
color="#ffff00">QUESTIONS.</font
ONE OF OUR
COLLEAGUES IN THE  <font
color="#ffff00">MIDDLE OF THIS
ROUNDTABLE EVENT
MIDDLE OF
THIS ROUNDTABLE EVENT
CALLED
OUT, "MRS. CLINTON, WILL
YOU TAKE
SOME QUESTIONS FROM THE
<font
color="#ffff00">PRESS?"
HE XI WAS
A LITTLE COY.
A LITTLE COY.  <font
color="#ffff00">SHE MAID MAYBE I
WILL.
SHE MAID
MAYBE I WILL. <font
color="#ffff00">SHE SAID, WELL,
I'LL DO IT IF I
SHE SAID,
WELL, I'LL DO IT IF I
CAN LEARN
SOMETHING.
SOMETHING.  <font
color="#ffff00">THEN SHE CAME
OVER.
THEN SHE
CAME OVER. <font
color="#ffff00">SHE SPOKE FOR
FIVE MINUTES, MORE
SHE SPOKE
FOR FIVE MINUTES, MORE
THAN FIVE
MINUTES, SHE TOOK A
TOTAL OF
SIX QUESTIONS, WHICH
BRINGS IT
TO A TOTAL OF 19 SINCE
SHE
ANNOUNCED HER PEACE
ANNOUNCED HER PEACE CORPS.
<font
color="#ffff00">THIS IS
THIS IS
DIFFERENT THAN THE  <font
color="#ffff00">REPUBLICAN SIDE,
BUT THIS IS
REPUBLICAN
SIDE, BUT THIS IS <font
color="#ffff00">HEALTH
CARE.
HEALTH
CARE. <font
color="#ffff00">SHE HAS 100%
NAME RECOGNITION
SHE HAS
100% NAME RECOGNITION
AND SHE
HAS MINIMAL COMPETITION.
HER
CAMPAIGN FEELS SHE
CAMPAIGN FEELS SHE DOESN'T
<font
color="#ffff00">HAVE TO ANSWER A
HAVE TO
ANSWER A BARRAGE OF
QUESTIONS
FROM THE PRESS.
FROM THE PRESS. <font
color="#ffff00">SHE WANTS THE
RUN THIS CAMPAIGN
SHE WANTS
THE RUN THIS CAMPAIGN
ON HER OWN
TERMS.
TERMS. <font
color="#ffff00">THAT'S NOT
ALWAYS POSSIBLE.
THAT'S NOT
ALWAYS POSSIBLE. <font
color="#ffff00">IN MARCH SHE HAD
TO DO A PRESS
IN MARCH
SHE HAD TO DO A PRESS
CONFERENCE
TO ANSWER SOME OF
TO ANSWER SOME OF  <font
color="#ffff00">THESE QUESTIONS
AND TO APPEASE
THESE
QUESTIONS AND TO APPEASE
SOME
DONORS AND SOME DEMOCRATS
<font
color="#ffff00">WHO WERE NERVOUS
WHO WERE
NERVOUS ABOUT HER  <font
color="#ffff00">PROSPECTS AT
THAT POINT.
PROSPECTS
AT THAT POINT.  <font
color="#ffff00">>> Ifill: AND
MATEA, WE
>> Ifill:
AND MATEA, WE <font
color="#ffff00">HAVEN'T REALLY
SEEN ANY EFFECT
HAVEN'T
REALLY SEEN ANY EFFECT
IN THE
POLLS.
POLLS. <font
color="#ffff00">PEOPLE HAVE SAID
SHE'S RICH AND
PEOPLE
HAVE SAID SHE'S RICH AND
SHE'S OUT
OF TOUCH AND SHE'S
OF TOUCH AND SHE'S  <font
color="#ffff00">KEEPING SECRETS,
THAT ISN'T YET
KEEPING
SECRETS, THAT ISN'T YET
SHOWING UP
IN ANY EARLY OPINION
<font
color="#ffff00">POLLING.
>> NOT SO
MUCH.
MUCH. <font
color="#ffff00">IT'S SORT OF
CAUSING REPUBLICANS
IT'S SORT
OF CAUSING REPUBLICANS
THE TEAR
THEIR HAIR OUT.
THEIR HAIR OUT. <font
color="#ffff00">THEY'RE NOT SURE
WHY THIS ISN'T
THEY'RE
NOT SURE WHY THIS ISN'T
DAMAGING
HER APPROVAL RATING.
I THINK
ONE THING PETER
ONE THING PETER  <font
color="#ffff00">MENTIONED IS SO
TRUE.
MENTIONED
IS SO TRUE. <font
color="#ffff00">SHE'S SUCH A
KNOWN QUANTITY THAT
SHE'S SUCH
A KNOWN QUANTITY THAT
MANY
PEOPLE HAVE FORD THEIR
OPINIONS
ABOUT HER AND HAVE VERY
STRONGLY
HELD VIEWS.
HELD VIEWS. <font
color="#ffff00">I THINK IT WILL
TAKE A LOT TO
I THINK IT
WILL TAKE A LOT TO  <font
color="#ffff00">DISLODGE, THAT
BUT I THINK THE
DISLODGE,
THAT BUT I THINK THE
MONEY AND
THE E-MAIL SPEAK TO
HER REAL
COMPETITION IN THIS
PRIMARY,
WHICH ISN'T A HUGE REAM
OF
CANDIDATES AS THERE IS ON
THE <font
color="#ffff00">G.O.P.
G.O.P.
SIDE. <font
color="#ffff00">SHE'S SHADOW
BOXING WITH
SHE'S
SHADOW BOXING WITH <font
color="#ffff00">HERSELF.
<font
>> Ifill:
WE'LL BE WATCHING
WE'LL BE WATCHING <font
color="#ffff00">HER DO
THAT.
HER DO
THAT. <font
color="#ffff00">MATEA GOLD OF
THE "WASHINGTON
MATEA GOLD
OF THE "WASHINGTON  <font
color="#ffff00">POST," PETER
NICHOLAS AT THE
POST,"
PETER NICHOLAS AT THE
"WALL
STREET JOURNAL," THANK
YOU <font
color="#ffff00">BOTH VERY
BOTH VERY
MUCH.  <font
color="#ffff00">>> THANK
YOU.
>> THANK
YOU. <font
color="#ffff00">>> THANK YOU,
GWEN.
>> Ifill:
THE UNITED NATIONS  <font
color="#ffff00">CULTURAL AGENCY
RECENTLY
CULTURAL
AGENCY RECENTLY  <font
color="#ffff00">EXPRESSED ALARM
OVER ONE OF
EXPRESSED
ALARM OVER ONE OF <font
color="#ffff00">THE MIDDLE
EAST'S MOST TREASURED
THE MIDDLE
HISTORICAL
SITES.
SITES. <font
color="#ffff00">THEY REPORTED
THAT THE ANCIENT
THEY
REPORTED THAT THE ANCIENT
<font
color="#ffff00">CITY OF PALMYRA,
CITY OF
PALMYRA, SYRIA, HOME OF
2,000
YEARR-OLD RUINS, AND A
U.N. WORLD
HERITAGE SITE, IS
HERITAGE SITE, IS  <font
color="#ffff00">CURRENTLY UNDER
THREAT, AS
CURRENTLY
UNDER THREAT, AS  <font
color="#ffff00">ISLAMIC STATE
FORCES MOVE IN,
ISLAMIC
STATE FORCES MOVE IN,
FIGHTING
AGAINST GOVERNMENT
AGAINST GOVERNMENT  <font
color="#ffff00">TROOPS IN THE
AREA.
TROOPS IN
THE AREA. <font
color="#ffff00">AT THIS POINT,
THE MILITANTS
AT THIS
POINT, THE MILITANTS
HAVE BEEN
HELD AT BAY, BUT THE
<font
color="#ffff00">DESTRUCTION AND
LOOTING OF  <font
color="#ffff00">ANTIQUITIES IS
<font
ONE OF THE  <font
color="#ffff00">TURMOIL'S MANY
TURMOIL'S
MANY CASUALTIES.  <font
color="#ffff00">NEWSHOUR SPECIAL
CORRESPONDENT
NEWSHOUR
SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT
MARCIA
BIGGS REPORTS TONIGHT
ON THE
FIGHT TO SAVE THEM.
IT'S PART
OF OUR SERIES ON
OF OUR SERIES ON <font
color="#ffff00">"CULTURE AT
RISK."
"CULTURE
AT RISK." <font
color="#ffff00">>> Reporter:
IT'S AS STARK AS
>>
Reporter: IT'S AS STARK
AS <font
color="#ffff00">NIGHT AND
NIGHT AND
DAY. <font
color="#ffff00">THIS SATELLITE
PHOTO FROM BEFORE
THIS
SATELLITE PHOTO FROM
BEFORE <font
color="#ffff00">AND AFTER THE
AND AFTER
THE WAR. <font
color="#ffff00">BOTH ARE FROM
THE ANCIENT CITY
BOTH ARE
FROM THE ANCIENT CITY
OF APAMEA,
FOUNDED IN 300 BC. IT
WAS A HUB
OF COMMERCE AND
OF COMMERCE AND  <font
color="#ffff00">CULTURE IN THE
ROMAN ERA.
CULTURE IN
THE ROMAN ERA.  <font
color="#ffff00">AND IT BOASTED
ONE OF THE
AND IT
BOASTED ONE OF THE <font
color="#ffff00">LARGEST THEATERS
IN THE ANCIENT.
LARGEST
THEATERS IN THE ANCIENT.
TODAY IT
IS POCKMARKED WITH
IS POCKMARKED WITH  <font
color="#ffff00">CRATERS,
EVIDENCE OF MASSIVE
CRATERS,
LOOTING ON
AN INDUSTRIAL SCALE.
SYRIA'S
CULTURAL HERITAGE SITES
HAVE BEEN
DEVASTATED BY FOUR
DEVASTATED BY FOUR <font
color="#ffff00">YEARS OF
WAR.
YEARS OF
WAR. <font
color="#ffff00">SOME IN THE
REGION ARE BATTLING
SOME IN
THE REGION ARE BATTLING
TO SAVE
THE COUNTRY'S HISTORY,
BUT IT'S
OFTEN TIMES A LIFE
OFTEN TIMES A LIFE  <font
color="#ffff00">THREATENING RACE
AGAINST THE
<font
color="#ffff00">THREATENING RACE
AGAINST THE <font
color="#ffff00">CLOCK.
<font
WE
TRAVELED TO TURKEY TO MEET
A <font
color="#ffff00">SYRIAN
SYRIAN
ARCHAEOLOGIST WHO IS
AT THE
FOREFRONT.
FOREFRONT. <font
color="#ffff00">HE ASKED THAT WE
NOT SHOW YOU
HE ASKED
THAT WE NOT SHOW YOU
HIS FACE
OR USE HIS REAL NAME.
WE'LL CALL
HIM SAID.
HIM SAID. <font
color="#ffff00">EARLY IN THE
WAR, SAID WAS PART
EARLY IN
THE WAR, SAID WAS PART
OF A TEAM
CALLED THE SYRIAN
CALLED THE SYRIAN  <font
color="#ffff00">HERITAGE TASK
FORCE, WHICH
HERITAGE
TASK FORCE, WHICH  <font
color="#ffff00">SANDBAGGED
HISTORIC SITES LIKE
SANDBAGGED
THIS
MUSEUM IN MA'ARA, TO
PROTECT
THEM FROM BASHAR AL
THEM FROM BASHAR AL <font
color="#ffff00">ASSAD'S
AIRSTRIKES.
ASSAD'S
AIRSTRIKES. <font
color="#ffff00">>> IT'S NOT A
WAR ON OUR
>> IT'S
NOT A WAR ON OUR  <font
color="#ffff00">PRESENT, THAT'S
WHAT I BELIEVE.
PRESENT,
THAT'S WHAT I BELIEVE.
THE WAR IS
TARGETING THE HUMAN
BEING THAT
IS ALIVE NOW, WHO IS
ALSO PART
OF A HISTORY OF ROOTS.
SO WE ARE
FIGHTING ON MORE THAN
ONE
FRONT.
FRONT. <font
color="#ffff00">I CHOSE TO FIGHT
ON THE FRONT
I CHOSE TO
FIGHT ON THE FRONT  <font
color="#ffff00">THAT IS THAT OF
HISTORY.
THAT IS
THAT OF HISTORY. <font
color="#ffff00">>> Reporter:
WHEN THE ISLAMIC
>>
Reporter: WHEN THE ISLAMIC
<font
color="#ffff00">STATE CAME IN,
STATE CAME
IN, THEY TOOK SAID'S
<font
color="#ffff00">VILLAGE.
HE SAYS
THE PUNISHMENT FOR
THE PUNISHMENT FOR  <font
color="#ffff00">PROTECTING
SECULAR OBJECTS IS
PROTECTING
SECULAR OBJECTS IS <font
color="#ffff00">NOW
DEATH.
NOW
DEATH. <font
color="#ffff00">SAID HAS MOVED
HIS WIFE AND
SAID HAS
MOVED HIS WIFE AND  <font
color="#ffff00">THREE CHILDREN
TO TURKEY,
THREE
CHILDREN TO TURKEY,
FEARING
FOR THEIR SAFETY.
FOR THEIR SAFETY. <font
color="#ffff00">IS YOUR WORK
WORTH THIS RISK?
IS YOUR
WORK WORTH THIS RISK?
>> THERE
IS NOTHING TO GAIN FROM
THIS, MOST
OF THE TIME I DON'T
OF THE TIME I DON'T <font
color="#ffff00">GET
MONEY.
GET
MONEY. <font
color="#ffff00">BUT AT THE END
OF THE DAY, I'M A
BUT AT THE
END OF THE DAY, I'M A
SYRIAN
CITIZEN AND IT'S MY DUTY.
<font
color="#ffff00">SOME SYRIANS ARE
SOME
SYRIANS ARE FIGHTING THE
REGIME,
SOME ARE FIGHTING
SOME ARE FIGHTING <font
color="#ffff00">AGAINST
IS.
AGAINST
IS. <font
color="#ffff00">I WOULD RATHER
WORK IN MY FIELD,
I WOULD
RATHER WORK IN MY FIELD,
WHICH IS
PROTECTING ANTIQUITIES.
>>
Reporter: WHILE LOOTING
Reporter: WHILE LOOTING IS
<font
color="#ffff00">OCCURRING ON ALL
OCCURRING
ON ALL SIDES OF THE
CONFLICT,
BOTH THE U.N. AND THE
US
TREASURY DEPARTMENT
TREASURY DEPARTMENT CONSIDER
IT
A SOURCE OF FUNDING FOR
IT A
SOURCE OF FUNDING FOR THE
<font
color="#ffff00">ISLAMIC STATE,
ISLAMIC
STATE, WHICH SAID SAYS
HAS EVEN
ESTABLISHED A BUREAU OF
<font
color="#ffff00">ANTIQUITIES.</fo
LOOTERS
ARE REQUIRED TO FILL OUT
PERMISSION
FORMS LIKE THIS ONE
AND HAND
OVER A PERCENTAGE OF
THEIR
PROCEEDS.
PROCEEDS. <font
color="#ffff00">SO IF YOU WANT
TO LOOT
SO IF YOU
WANT TO LOOT  <font
color="#ffff00">ANTIQUITIES YOU
HAVE TO BUY A
<font
color="#ffff00">ANTIQUITIES YOU
HAVE TO BUY A  <font
color="#ffff00">LICENSE FROM THE
LICENSE
FROM THE ISLAMIC STATE?
>> YES, OF
COURSE.
COURSE. <font
color="#ffff00">>> Reporter: AND
THEN I.S. TAKES
>>
Reporter: AND THEN I.S.
TAKES <font
color="#ffff00">A CUT OF
A CUT OF
20%? <font
color="#ffff00">>> (
translated): OF COURSE.
>>
(translated): OF
COURSE. IF THEY DIDN'T OFFER ANY
HELP OR
IF THEY DIDN'T OFFER ANY HELP OR
EQUIPMENT, THEY JUST TAKE 20%,
IF THEY OFFER HELP AND
EQUIPMENT, THEY TAKE MORE, 50%.
>> Reporter: PUBLICLY, THE GRPOU
HAS MADE A CAMPAIGN OF
DESTROYING UN-ISLAMIC CULTURAL
RELICS.
TWO MONTHS AGO, THIS VIDEO
SURFACED, WHICH APPEARS TO SHOW
I.S. FIGHTERS DESTROYING
PRICELESS ARTIFACTS IN IRAQ'S
MOSUL MUSEUM.
IT LATER EMERGED THAT SOME OF
THE PIECES WERE NOT ORIGINAL.
DO YOU THINK THAT THIS IS A BIT
FOR SHOW, AND THAT THEY ARE
ACTUALLY SELLING PIECES?
>> FOR SURE.
I MEAN THEY DESTROYED THE PIECES
THAT WE SAW THEY ARE DESTROYING,
BUT OF COURSE WE KNOW THAT IN
MOSUL MUSEUM THERE ARE MANY
PIECES AND IT'S VERY POSSIBLE
THAT THE OTHER PIECES WERE SOLD
ON THE ILLICIT MARKET.
>> Reporter: DR. ASSAD SEIF IS
AN ARCHAEOLOGIST WITH LEBANON'S
DIRECTORATE GENERAL OF
ANTIQUITIES, WORKING WITH LOCAL
POLICE TO STOP THE TRAFFICKING
OF ILLEGAL ANTIQUITIES ACROSS
SYRIA'S BORDER WITH LEBANON.
HOW MUCH MONEY HAVE YOU SEEN IN
ILLICIT TRAFFICKED ANTIQUITIES
THAT HAVE COME THROUGH THIS
MUSEUM?
>> IF WE JUST CALCULATE THE SUM,
THE TOTAL AMOUNT OF OBJECTS, IF
WE CALCULATE THE SUM OF THEM WE
COULD REACH $5-$10 MILLION.
>> Reporter: THAT'S QUITE A LOT
OF MONEY.
>> THAT'S QUITE A LOT OF MONEY,
YES, BUT NOT AS MUCH AS WE THINK
IS LOOTED FROM SYRIA.
>> Reporter: ANTIQUITIES ARE
SMUGGLED FROM SYRIA THROUGH TWO
MAIN TRANSIT POINTS: TURKEY AND
LEBANON.
THEY'RE NOT BEING SOLD ON THE
OPEN MARKET, WHICH MAKES
VERIFYING THEIR NUMBER
DIFFICULT.
ACCORDING TO THE U., T.NHE SCALE
OF LOOTING IS ENORMOUS.
LEBANESE AUTHORITIES SAY STOLEN
ANTIQUITIES MAKE THEIR WAY FROM
HERE BY SEA TO CYPRESS, THEN ON
TO TURKEY, AND FINALLY TO
EUROPE.
EXPERTS BELIEVE THAT OBJECTS ARE
MOST LIKELY GOING UNDERGROUND TO
STORAGE FACILITIES AND PRIVATE
COLLECTIONS.
THY MAEY RE-APPEAR IN SEVERAL
YEARS.
COLONEL NICHOLAS SAAD LEADS THE
INVESTIGATIONS ON THE LEBANESE
SIDE AND KNOWS WELL THE ROUTES
AND THE PLAYERS INVOLVED.
>> THERE IS AN INTERMEDIARY IN
SYRIA, THERE'S THE EXPERT WHO
SEARCHES FOR THE ANTIQUITIES,
THERE IS THE SMUGGLER WHO BRINGS
IT FROM SYRIA TO LEBANON AND
THERE IS THE SMUGGLER WHO HAVE
IT IN LEBANON AND TAKES IT TO
THE PORT OF LEBANON.
THERE IS ALSO THE SMUGGLER WHO
HAS THE SHIP TO THE EUROPE.
>> Reporter: THIS CELL PHONE
VIDEO SHOWS SUSPECTED REGIME
SOLDIERS LOADING SCULPTURES
STOLEN FROM PALMYRA, SYRIA'S
CROWN JEL AEWND A WORLD HERITAGE
SITE.
SMUGGLERS IN BEIRUT WERE CAUGHT
AFTER THEY ADVERTISED THEM ON
THE INTERNET FOR $200,000 A
PIECE.
HOW OFTEN ARE YOU BUSTING THESE
GUYS?
>> PERHAPS ONCE A MONTH.
>> Reporter: AND BEFORE THE WAR?
>> BEFORE THE WAR IT WAS ONCE
EVERY FIVE OR SIX MONTHS, EIGHT
MONTHS, ONCE A YEAR.
>> Reporter: ONCE SMUGGLERS ARE
CAUGHT, THEIR WARES ARE BROUGHT
HERE TO THE BASEMENT OF
LEBANON'S NATIONAL MUSEUM, WHERE
DR. SEIF'S TEAM IS IN CHARGE OF
HOUSING AND AUTHENTICATING THEM.
TODAY, HE IS PREPARING TO SEND
BACK A SERIES OF GENUINE
RELIGIOUS ARTIFACTS FROM THE
TOWN OF MA'ALOULA.
A U.N. RESOLUTION ADOPTED IN
1970 REQUIRES THAT ANY ILLICITLY
TRAFFICKED ANTIQUITIES BE
RETURNED TO THEIR COUNTRY OF
ORIGIN.
MA'ALOULA, A CHRISTIAN VILLAGE
WITH MONASTERIES GOING BACK TO
THE 4TH CENTURY, WHERE THEY
STILL SPEAK ARAMIC, THE LANGUAGE
OF JESUS.
IT WAS SEIZED BY THE AL QAEDA
LINKED JABHAT AL NUSRA IN THE
FALL OF 2013.
IT REMAINED A BATTLEGROUND
BETWEEN OPPOSITION AND
GOVERNMENT FORCES FOR MONTHS.
DO YOU HAVE ANY CONCERN ABOUT
SENDING THESE PIECES BACK TO AN
UNSTABLE AREA, TO A WARZONE?
>> IT'S ALWAYS DIFFICULT TO KNOW
THAT A PIECE COULD BE IN A
DANGER ZONE, OF COURSE, BUT
WE HAVE TO RESPECT THE WISH OF
THE COUNTRY OF ORIGIN.
>> Reporter: IT'S A SCENE THAT
SEIF KNOWS ALL TOO WELL.
BITTER CIVIL WAR FROM 1975 TO
1991.
>> IN LEBANON WE HAVE LIVED THIS
TRAUMA BEFORE, WE FEEL THE DEEP
SORROW AND DEEP FEELING OF
INCAPACITY THAT YOU ARE IN FRONT
OF A HERITAGE THAT IS BEING
DESTROYED AND YOU CANNOT DO
ANYTHING.
IT'S VERY HARD FEELING TO HAVE.
>> Reporter: IN T CHAHEOS OF
WAR, NOT EVEN LEBANON'S MUSEUM
WAS SACRED.
MILITIAS USED IT AS A MILITARY
BASE, EVEN CREATING A SNIPER'S
NEST IN THIS 1,500 YEAR OLD
MOSAIC.
LEBANESE ARCHAEOLOGISTS RACED TO
PROTECT THE PIECES THAT COULDN'T
BE MOVED BY SURROUNDING THEM
WITH CONCRETE.
>> WE HAD ARMED FORCES HERE,
SOMETIMES INSIDE THE MUSEUM.
SO THEY USED TO MAKE A SMALL
FIRE, IN ORDER TO MAKE TEA OR
COFFEE.
SO YOU SEE THE BURNING SPOTS
THAT WERE OUTSIDE.
>> Reporter: WHEN THE WAR ENDED,
THE CONCTE WREAS REMOVED.
THESE 3,000 YEAR OLSARCD OPHAGI
ARE NOW THE CENTERPIECE OF THE
NATIONAL MUSEUM.
>> Reporter: ALL OF THESE MARKS
HERE ARE SHRAPNEL.
THEY WOULD HAVE BEEN DESTROYED.
>> YEAH OF COURSE.
>> Reporter: AND THEY MADE IT.
>> YEAH, THEY MADE IT.
>> Reporter: BUT THE BATTLE FOR
HISTORY IN SYRIA IS MUCH HARDER
TO FIGHT.
>> IN LEBANON, THE CONFLICTING
PARTIES WERE NOT TRYING TO ERASE
THE MEMORY AND THE PAST OF THE
OTHER, BUT IN SYRIA THE I.S. OR
THEY ARE TRYING TO ERASE ALL THE
MEMORY OF THE HISTORY OF THE
OTHER AND THIS IS VERY, VERY
DANGEROUS.
IT'S LIKE ERADICATING THE WHOLE
PAST OF A COMMUNITY.
>> Reporter: AND WITH 200,000
PEOPLE KILLED AND NINE MILLION
PEOPLE DISPLACED FROM THEIR
HOMES, A FUTURE FOR SYRIA IS
DYING ALONGSIDE ITS PAST.
DYING ALONGSIDE ITS PAST. >> (
translated): SOMETIMES
THE
>> (translated):
SOMETIMES THE ISSUE OF
ANTIQUITIES TORTURES US
ISSUE OF ANTIQUITIES TORTURES US
MORE THAN WHEN BASHAR AL ASSAD
STRIKES WITH BARREL BOMBS OR
ISIS KILLS BECAUSE WE CAN CHANGE
THE CONVERSATION AND WE CAN
REBUILD IN THE FUTURE WHEN WE
GET RID OF BASHAR OR ISIS, BUT
HISTORY, WE CAN'T REMAKE.
THIS ONE KILLS AND THAT ONE
KILLS.
THIS ONE DESTROYS CIVILIZATIONS
AND THAT ONE DESTROYS
CIVILIZATIONS.
>> Reporter: FOR SAID, HE TOLD
ME IT'S PAIN ON TOP OF PAIN ON
TOP OF PAIN.
MARCIA BIGGS, FOR PBS NEWSHOUR,
BEIRUT.
>> Ifill: DAVID LETTERMAN WILL
SIGN OFF FOR THE LAST TIME
TOMORROW, CAPPING A LATE NIGHT
CAREER THAT LASTED MORE THAN
THREE DECADES, EVEN LONGER THAN
THE LATE-NIGHT TITAN JOHNNY
CARSON.
LETTERMAN, AND NOW A GENERATION
OF YOUNGER COMEDIANS,
DRASTICALLY CHANGED THE
LANDSCAPE CARSON LEFT BEHIND.
AND NOW, IT'S SET TO CHANGE
AGAIN.
JEFFREY BROWN LOOKS AT
LETTERMAN'S ENDURING INFLUENCE.
>> BECAUSE THIS IS MY LAST TIME
I WANT TO GIVE YOU THE DRESS SO
YOU CAN KEEP IT.
>> Brown: IN THE FINAL DAYS OF
HIS PROGRAM, DAVID LETTERMAN HAS
HEARD RAVES AND ROASTS.
>> HOW LONG HAVE WE BEEN
FRIENDS?
I GUESS YOU ELUDED TO 33--
YOU GO BACK TO THE MORNING SHOW.
>> THE MORNING OW, SHYEAH, I WAS
ON THE MORNING SHOW THEN, BUT
THAT DOESN'T MAKE US FRIENDS.
>> Brown: FROM A PARADE OF
STA, MARSNY OF WHOM HAVE JOINED
HIM OFTEN IN HIS 33 YEAR NETWORK
CAREER.
EVEN THE PRESIDENT MADE AN
APPEARANCE HIS EIGHTH ON THE
SHOW.
>> I KNOW YOU LIKE MICHELLE A
LITTLE BIT MORE THAN ME.
>> SHE WAS HERE LAST WEEK.
>> Brown: ERIC DEGGANS, N.P.R.'S
TV CRITIC, CALLS LETTERMAN'S
"LATE NIGHT" LEGACY MASSIVE:
>> IT CAME OUT OF NOWHERE AND
REALLY REWROTE SOME OF THE RULES
OF LATE NIGHT TV COMEDY, AND
ALLOWED MORE OF AN ACERBIC, MORE
IN A SENSE OF THE ABSURD, POKING
FUN AT THE HYPOCRISY OF
TELEVISION.
>> Brown: INDEED, FROM THE
OUTSET, LETTERMAN BROUGHT A NEW
VOICE TO LATE NIGHT, ONE ATTUNED
TO CURRENT EVENTS, BUT WITH A
REAL EDGE.
SOMETIMES, LETTERMAN WOULD GO TO
THE EDGE.
>> THROWING STUFF OFF THE ROOF
OF WHERE THEY WERE DOING THE
SHOW JUST TO SEE HOW IT LOOKS
WHEN IT SPLATTERED ON THE
GROUND, TO LETTERMAN BEING IN A
DRIVE THROUGH AT A TACO BELL OR
MCDONALDS AND MESSING WITH THE
PEOPLE WHO WERE TRYING TO ORDER
THEIR FOOD.
>> Brown: THERE WERE THE
SIGNATURE SEGMENTS, LIKE STUPID
PET TRICKS.
AND TOP TEN LISTS, WHERE THE
PAYOFF MIGHT ELICIT A GROAN AS
MUCH AS A LAUGH.
>> TOP TEN THINGS THAT SOUND
CREEPY WHEN SAID BY JOHN
MALKOVICH.
>> DOES THIS LOOK INFECTED TO
YOU?
>> Brown: LONGTIME SIDEKICK AND
BANDLEADER PAUL SHAFFER WAS PART
OF THE ROUTINE.
>> IN THE NEW MILLENIUM PEOPLE
WILL FREAK OUT!
>> Brown: AS WAS THE ODD-BALL
EVERYMAN LARRY "BUD" MELLMAN.
LETTERMAN WAS KNOWN FOR AN
ENGAGED AND, ON OCCASION,
CONFRONTATIONAL INTERVIEWING
STYLE.
>> HAVE YOUR FRIENDS TREATED YOU
DIFFERENTLY SINCE YOU HAVE BEEN
OUT OF THE SLAMMER?
>> NO PEOPLE THINK THAT I WAS
REALLY STRONG THAT I WENT
THROUGH IT.
>> GOD IT WAS JUST UGLY WASN'T
IT.
AND HAVE YOU MADE--
>> BUT I'VE MOVED ON WITH MY
LIFE SO I DON'T REALLY WANT TO
TALK ABOUT IT ANYMORE.
>> SEE THIS IS WHERE YOU AND I
ARE DIFFERENT.
>> ONE OF THE THINGS LETTERMAN
LOVED TO DO WAS TO, GET
CELEBRITIES ON THE SHOW AND GET
THEM OFF OF THEIR TALKING POINT.
AND TRIED TO GET THEM TO TALK
ABOUT SOMETHING THAT WAS EITHER
UNCOMFORTABLE OR THAT REVEALED
SOMETHING ABOUT THEMSELVES OR
THAT WHETHER IT WAS SOME SORT OF
REAL INTERACTION.
>> I'M GOING ON TO THE NEXT
QUESTION.
>> Brown: ONE OF THOSE FAMOUSLY
"REAL" INTERACTIONS CAME WITH
CHER IN 2013.
>> YOU MUST HAVE HAD A CHANGE OF
HEART ABOUT SOMETHING.
>> NO, ACTUALLY, I DON'T KNOW
BECAUSE I THOUGHT I WOULD NEVER
WANT TO DO THIS SHOW WITH YOU.
>> NOW WHY?
LET'S EXPLORE THIS A LITTLE.
BECAUSE YOU THOUGHT I WAS--
>> AN (BLEEP)
>> Brown: EARLY IN HIS CAREER,
LETTERMAN HOSTED LOCAL TALK AND
CHILDREN'S PROGRAMS AND SERVED
AS A LOCAL NEWS ANCHOR AND
WEATHERMAN.
HIS BIG BREAK AS A COMEDIAN CAME
WHEN HE BEGAN APPEARING ON THE
JOHNNY CARSON SHOW IN THE
1970'S.
AND IN 1982 HE WAS GIVEN THE
SLOT THAT FOLLOWED CARSON,
TURNING THAT TRADITIONALLY
SLEEPY TIME INTO A SUDDENLY
ENERGETIC ROMP.
ELEVEN YEARS LATER, THOUGH, HE
WAS PASSED OVER AS CARSON'S
REPLACEMENT WHEN NBC CHOSE JAY
LENO INSTEAD.
A DISAPPOINTED LETTERMAN MOVED
TO CBS TO HOST "LATE SHOW WITH
DAVID LETTERMAN" AIRING OPPOSITE
LENO.
>> LET ME JUST START WITH A
QUESTION HERE.
JUST HOW PISSED OFF ARE YOU?
>> Brown: IT, TOO, WAS A
SHOWCASE AND LAUNCHING PAD FOR
NEW STARS AND AN INSPIRATION TO
YOUNGER COMEDIANS, SAYS AL
MADRIGAL OF "THE DAILY SHOW WITH
JON STEWART."
>> SO I GREW UP WATCHING
LETTERMAN AS A COMEDY NERD,
COMEDY FAN I REALLY WAS EXCITED
ABOUT THE OPPORTUNITIES THAT HE
GAVE COMICS AND YEARS AND YEARS
LATER, FRIENDS OF MINE.
THE SHOW WAS UNPREDICTABLE AND
THAT'S WHAT I REALLY ENJOYED
ABOUT IT.
>> Brown: AMONG THE MANY
COMEDIANS WHO APPEAREOFTED N
WITH LETTERMAN ON THEIR WAY TO
STARDOM:
JERRY SEINFELD, MARTIN SHORT,
AND JIMMY KIMMEL WHO NOW HAS OWN
LATE NIGHT SHOW.
>> ONE THING I WILL SAY, YOU
KNOW I WAS HERE BEFORE THE SHOW
STARTED AND I REALLY FEEL LIKE
YOU LED ME ASTRAY BY NOT TELLING
ME HOW MUCH LYING I WOULD BE
DOING.
>> Brown: ONE STAR WHO GIVES
LETTERMAN CREDIT FOR LAUNCHING
HIS CAREER IS RAY ROMANO, OF
"EVERYONE LOVES RAYMOND" FAME,
WHO HOSTED A TRIBUTE TO
LETTERMAN RECENTLY.
>> I'M ONLY HERE BECAUSE OF
DAVID LETTERMAN.
WITHOUT HIM I'D BE AT HOME WITH
A THREE LEGGED DOG AND A TATTOO
ON MY CHEST THAT SAID, "ALMOST
MADE IT."
>> Brown: ALONG THE WAY,
LETTERMAN ALSO HAD TO DEAL
PUBLICLY WITH SOME PERSONAL
ISSUES, INCLUDING HIS QUINTUPLE
HEART BYPASS SURGERY IN 2000.
>> I COULDN'T HAVE BEEN MORE
PROUD THEN WHEN THEY CARVED
THEIINITR IALS IN ME.
>> Brown: AND AN AFFAIR WITH AN
ASSISTANT, THAT LED TO A
BLACKMAIL ATTEMPT.
>> I HAVE HAD SEX WITH WOMEN WHO
WORK FOR ME ON THIS SHOW.
>> ONE OF LETTERMAN'S STRENGTHS
AS A BROADCASTER THAT I THINK
PEOPLE UNDERESTIMATE OR DON'T
TALK MUCH ABOUT IS HIS ABILITY
TO FACE THE CAMERA AND TALK
ABOUT SOMETHING THAT'S REALLY
SERIOUS IN A WAY THAT IS
COMPELLING, HEARTFELT.
>> ANY ENORMOUS UPROOTING CHANGE
IN MY LIFE HAS PETRIFIED ME.
REALLY PETRIFIED ME.
BUT ONCE I'VE COME THROUGH THE
OTHER SIDE, THE REWARD HAS BEEN
UNIMAGINABLE.
>> Brown: IN THE FALL, STEPHEN
COLBERT WILL TAKE OVER
LETTERMAN'S TIME SLOT FOR CBS.
JOINING A CROWD OF NEWER FACES
WHO NOW VIE FOR ATTENTION.
AS DAVID LETTERMAN SAYS GOODBYE
AFTER MORE THAN 6,000 "LATE
NIGHT" BROADCASTS.
FOR THE PBS NEWSHOUR, I'M
JEFFREY BROWN.
>> Ifill: NOW, ANOTHER ADDITION
OF THE NEWSHOUR BOOKSHELF.
IT'S A STORY SOMEWHAT LOST TO
HISTORY.
HOW THE UNITED STATES EXPANDED
AFTER THE REVOLUTIONARY WAR
INTO THE DEEP SOUTH.
STEVE INSKEEP, CO-HOST OF NPR'S
MORNING EDITION, HAS THE DETAILS
IN "JACKSONLAND: PRESIDENT
ANDREW JACKSON, CHEROKEE CHIEF
JOHN ROSS, AND A GREAT AMERICAN
LAND GRAB."
JUDY WOODRUFF TALKED TO HIM LAST
WEEK AT BUS BOYS AND POETS, A
OKSTBOORE AND RESTAURANT IN THE
D.C. AREA.
WELCOME.
>> IT'S A DELIGHT TO BE HERE.
>> Woodruff: SO YOU REPORT
FROM ALL OVER THE WORLD.
YOU TELL STORIES FROM SO MANY
PARTS OF THE GLOBE, AND YET YOU
ALSO REALLY LOVE AMERICAN
HISTORY.
THAT COMES THROUGH IN THIS BOOK.
>> WELL, THANK YOU.
I WANTED TO GO BACK TO THE
BEGINNING IN A SENSE, AND I
ENDED UP DOING THIS STORY, WHICH
IS SET IN THE 1820s AND
'30s, A PERIOD WHEN DEMOCRACY
AS WE KNOW IT, THE DEMOCRATIC
INSTITUTIONS WE KNOW BEGAN THE
TAKE SHAPE.
AND SO IT'S A REALLY EXCITING
PERIOD OF AMERICAN HISTORY EVEN
THOUGH I FOUND A REALLY DARK
STORY THERE.
>> Woodruff: BUT IT'S A
PARTICULAR PART OF THAT PERIOD
THAT OBVIOUSLY HAD TO DO WITH A
MOMENT WHEN THE LEADERS OF OUR
COUNTRY REALIZED THEY HAD TO
MAKEA DECISION ABOUT WHAT TO DO
ABOUT THE INDIANS.
WHY WAS THAT IMPORTANT?
>> WELL, IT WAS AN EPIC MOMENT
REALLY BECAUSE THE UNITED STATES
WAS EXPANDING.
THE U.S. HAD WON ITS
INDEPENDENCE, THE REVOLUTIONARY
GENERATION THAT HAD WON THAT
INDEPENDENCE WAS AGING AND DYING
OFF.
A SECOND GENERATION WAS COMING
TO THE STAGE.
SETTLERS WERE PUSHING WEST INTO
WHAT WAS LEGALLY INDIAN
TERRITORY.
THEY WERE INDIAN NATIONS.
THEY WERE NOT REALLY LEGALLY
UNDER THE CONTROL OF THE UNITED
STATES.
AND SO THERE WAS A BASIC
CONFLICT THERE.
WAS WHITE SETTLEMENT GOING TO
WIN OR WERE INDIAN RIGHTS GOING
TO BE UPHELD?
THAT WAS THE QUESTION THAT
PEOPLE WERE WRESTLING WITH.
AND FUNDAMENTALLY PEOPLE WHO
WERE RUNNING THE UNITED STATES
IN THAT GENERATION WERE TRYING
TO FIND A WAY TO DISPLACE THE
INDIANS HUMANELY THEY HOPED, BUT
THEY REALLY, REALLY WANTED THE
REAL ESTATE.
>> WELL, THERE ARE TWO CENTRAL
FIGURES IN THE STORY, OF COURSE.
ONE IS ANDREW JACKSON.
WE THINK WE KNOW SO MUCH ABOUT
THIS MAN, SEVENTH PRESIDENT OF
THE UNITED STATES.
HE WAS A GREAT GENERAL DURING
THE WAR OF 1812.
FATHER OF THE DEMOCRATIC PARTY.
BUT YOU PAINT A PORTRAIT OF HIM
THAT'S NOT SO ATTRACTIVE.
>> A MUCH DARKER SIDE OF ANDREW
JACKSON INVOLVES THE FACT THAT
HE WAS A SLAVE OWNER.
THAT HE RAN MULTIPLE
PLANTATIONS, THAT HE DISPLACED
INDIANS NOT JUST ONCE IN THE
TRAIL OF TEARS IN 1838 WHICH IS
WHAT EVERYBODY LEARNS ABOUT IN
ELEMENTARY SCHOOL, BUT
THROUGHOUT HIS CAREER THROUGH A
PERIOD OF MORE THAN 20 YEARS AS
A GENERAL DEFEATING THEM IN
BATTLE, AGAIN AS A GENERAL OUT
NEGOTIATING THEM IN TREATIES AND
BULLYING THEM IN TREATIES REALLY
AND THEN FINALLY AS PRESIDENT
SIGNING SOMETHING CALLED THE
INDIAN REMOVAL ACT, WHICH SET UP
THE CONDITIONS TO FORCE
MOVEMENT OF FURTHER INDIAN
NATIONS TO THE WEST, TO WHAT IS
NOW OKLAHOMA.
AND THAT DARK SIDE IS COMPLETELY
CONNECTED TO ANDREW JACKSON'S
BRIGHT SIDE.
HE WAS ABOUT THE EXPANSION OF
THE UNITED STATES, THE SECURITY
OF THE UNITED STATES, THE GROWTH
OF THE UNITED STATES, BUT HE SAW
THAT AS CONNECTED WITH PUSHING
INDIANS, NATIVE AMERICANS OUT OF
THE WAY.
THERE WERE NATIVE AMERICANS WHO
WANTED TO BE PART OF THE UNITED
STATES, NOT ALL OF THEM BY ANY
MEANS, BUT JOHN ROSS, THIS OTHER
MAIN CHARACTER, CERTAINLY DID.
>> HE'S REALLY THE CENTRAL OTHER
FIGURE HERE, NOT NEARLY AS
WELL-KNOWN AS JACKSON, AND YET
HE WAS A HUGE PLAYER IN WHAT
HAPPENED IN THAT PERIOD.
>> I'D LIKE HIM TO BE BETTER
KNOWN, JUDY.
SHE'S SOMEONE YOU SEE HIS NAME
IN HISTORY BOOKS, A COUPLE OF
BIOGRAPHYS HAVE BEEN WRITTEN,
BUT MORE SHOULD BE WRITTEN ABOUT
HIM BECAUSE HE IS PARTED OF THE
DEVELOPMENT OF AMERICAN
DEMOCRACY, TOO.
HE'S PART OF A GREAT DEMOCRATIC
STORY.
YOU HAVE ANDREW JACKSON, THIS
MAN WHO WAS A VERY MODEST
BEGINNINGS.
NO ONE SO POOR AT THE BEGINNING
OF HIS LIFE HAD EVER BECOME
PRESIDENT BEFORE.
JOHN ROSS AT THE SAME TIME WAS
BEING OPPOSED BY THIS MAN AND
USED DEMOCRATIC TOOLS TO FIGHT
BACK.
UNLIKE OTHER NATIVE AMERICAN
LEADERS, HE DIDN'T FIGHT IN A
REBELON THAT WOULD HAVE BEEN
HOPELESS BECAUSE THE INDIANS
WERE OUTNUMBERED, HE USED
PROPAGANDA, THE CHEROKEES
STARTED A NEWSPAPER.
THE CHEROKEE PHOENIX.
THE ARTICLES WERE SPREAD ACROSS
THE UNITED STATES.
SUPPORTERS OF CHEROKEE RIGHTS
FIGURED OUT WAYS TO MAKE THE
NEWS GO VIRAL IN THE 19th
CENTURY MEDIA.
THEY FOUGHT IN CONGRESS, THEY
EVEN SUED IN THE U.S. SUPREME
COURT.
>> Woodruff: DID ANDREW
JACKSON HAVE A CHOICE?
DID HE HAVE TO DO WHAT HE DID?
>> IT WOULD HAVE BEEN HARD TO
FIND ANOTHER CHOICE IF YOU WERE
GOING TO CONTINUE THE EXPANSION
OF THE UNITED STATES.
THERE WERE OTHER ALTERNATIVES.
ONE WAS SIMPLY STOP THIS.
STOP DOING THIS.
RECOGNIZE THIS NATIVE AMERICAN
NATIONS HAVE RIGHTS AND LEAVE
THEM ALONE UNTIL SUCH TIME THAT
THEY FEEL THEY'RE WILLING TO
INCORPORATE WITH THE U.S. OR
SELL THEIR LAND WITHOUT BEING
COERCED.
THAT WAS AN OPTION.
IT WOULD HAVE BEEN A VERY
DIFFICULT OPTION, THOUGH,
BECAUSE WHITE SETTLER, MANY OF
THEM WERE SLAVES WHO WANTED TO
START PLANTATIONS, WERE PUSHING
ON THAT LAND AT THE SAME TIME,
PARTICULARLY SETTLERS FROM THE
STATE OF GEORGIA, WHICH WAS THE
ABSOLUTE HEARTLAND OF THE
CHEROKEE NATION.
>> Woodruff: SO, STEVE, WHAT
IS IT YOU WANT AMERICANS TO KNOW
TO, LEARN FROM THIS PERIOD?
>> A COUPLE VITAL THINGS.
ONE IS SIMPLY THAT WE'VE BEEN AT
DEMOCRACY FOR A LONG TIME, AND
WHEN YOU GO BACK TO THE 1820s
AND 1830s, YOU NOTICE PEOPLE
SPEAKING IN THE SAME WAY,
SPEAKING IN RECOGNIZABLE WAYS
AND ACTING IN RECOGNIZABLE WAYS
AND YOU REALIZE THERE'S
SOMETHING WE CAN LEARN FROM THIS
AS WE STUDY OUR POLITICS TODAY.
ANOTHER THING THAT'S REALLY
SPECIFIC THAT I'D LIKE PEOPLE TO
KNOW, THAT I THINK HASN'T BEEN
REALIZED, IS THE ROLE OF NATIVE
AMERICANS AND CHEROKEES
SPECIFICALLY IN HELPING TO
DEVELOP AMERICAN DEMOCRACY AT
THIS VITAL POINT.
EVEN PEOPLE SYMPATHETIC TO THE
NATIVE AMERICAN PILOT OF VIEW
HAVE TENDED TO SEE THEM MAINLY
AS VICTIMS, AND THEY WERE, BUT
THEY ALSO FOUGHT BACK, FOUGHT
WITHIN THE DEMOCRATIC PROCESS,
AND ADDED TO OUR DEMOCRATIC
TRADITION.
THERE'S MUCH TO BE PROUD OF.
>> THAT'S A SIDE OF THE NATIVE
AMERICAN STORY THAT SO MANY OF
US DON'T RECOGNIZE.
STEVE INSKEEP, JACKSONLAND:
PRESIDENT ANDREW JACKSON,
CHEROKEE CHIEF JOHN ROSS, AND A
GREAT AMERICAN LAND GRAB.
STEVE INSKEEP, THANK YOU SO
MUCH.
>> IT'S AN HONOR TO BE HERE.
THANKS.
>> Ifill: TUNE IN LATER THIS
EVENING FOR A FRONTLINE
INVESTIGATION INTO AMERICA'S USE
OF ENHANCED INTERROGATION, WHAT
MANY HAVE DEEMED TORTURE.
A SENATE REPORT LATE LAST YEAR,
CHARGED THE C.I.A. CROSSED THE
LINE.
THE AGENCY STRONGLY DISAGREES.
IN THIS EXCERPT, TOP C.I.A.
OFFICIALS, INCLUDING LEAD
ATTORNEY JOHN RIZZO, DISCUSS THE
MOMENT THEY RECEIVED A REQUEST
FROM A CONTRACTOR TO EMPLOY
HARSHER TACTICS.
>> Reporter: THEY DREW UP A WISH
LIST AND SENT IT TO WASHINGTON.
IT MADE ITS WAY TO RIZZO ON THE
SEVENTH FLOOR.
>> I IMMEDIATELY RECOGNIZED THAT
THIS HAD BIG TIME TROUBLE FOR
C.I.A. WRITTEN ALL OVER IT.
I DIDN'T KNOW WHEN, I DIDN'T
KNOW HOW.
>> Reporter: THEY CALLED THEM
ENHANCED INTERROGATION
TECHNIQUES OR E.I.T.'S, RIZZO
LATER WROTE THAT THE NAME WAS
DECEPTIVELY BLAND.
>> PROVIDED A LIST FOR POSSIBLE
USE BY THE CIA: THE ATTENTION
GRASP, WALLING, FACIAL HOLD,
FACIAL SLAP, CRAMPED
CONFINEMENT.
>> IT INCLUDES SLEEP
DEPRIVATION, IT INCLUDES
WATERBOARDING, BEING STRAPPED TO
A BOARD AND DOUSED WITH WATER TO
MAKE YOU FEEL LIKE YOU'RE
DROWNING, AND A HOST OF OTHER
EXCRUCIATING METHODS.
>> Reporter: AFTER THE FIVE
O'CLOCK MEETING DIRECTOR GEORGE
TENET WAS SHOWN THE LIST.
>> GEORGE TENET'S FIRST REACTION
WAS TO TURN TO ME, AS WAS HIS
WONT, AND SAY, "IS ANY OF THIS
STUFF LEGAL?"
SO THAT WAS HIS FOCUS.
I DO NOT RECALL, HIM EXPRESSING
REVULSION OR ENTHUSIASM ABOUT
DOING THIS.
AS I SAY, HIS FIRST REACTION WAS
TO TURN TO ME AND SAY, "CAN WE
DO THIS LEGALLY?"
>> Reporter: RIZZO FACED A
DAUNTING CHALLENGE:
>> THERE'S AN INTERNATIONAL
TREATY THAT PROHIBITS TORTURE
AND ANY OTHER CRUEL, INHUMAN OR
DEGRADING TREATMENT.
THE LAW CLEARLY SAYS YOU CANNOT
SUBJECT PEOPLE TO WATER
BOARDING, TEN DAYS STRAIGHT OF
SLEEP DEPRIVATION, SLAMMING THEM
INTO WALLS AND THE LIKE.
>> Reporter: BUT INSIDE THE
C.I.A. BUREAUCRACY IT WAS
RIZZO'S JOB TO GET THEM
AUTHORIZED.
>> I FULLY REALIZED THAT EITHER
WAY, SOME DAY, SOMEHOW, WE WOULD
BE SCREWED.
>> Reporter: AND THE MORALITY OF
IT?
>> HONESTLY, HONESTLY, MY MAIN
FOCUS WAS TO ATTEMPT TO
ASCERTAIN, TO CLARIFY WITH
CERTAINTY WHETHER OR NOT ANY OR
ALL OF THESE TECHNIQUES CROSSED
THAT LEGAL LINE INTO TORTURE.
THAT WAS MY PRIMARY FOCUS AT
THAT POINT.
THE MORALITY OF IT, SURE, I HAD
VIEWS ABOUT THAT.
BUT I DID NOT VIEW THAT AS MY
PRIMARY ROLE.
>> THE C.I.A. FACED A REAL
DILEMMA HERE.
ON THE ONE HAND, WE KNEW THIS
PROGRAM WOULD BE CONTENTIOUS.
ON THE OTHER HAND, WE ASKED
OURSELVES, WOULDN'T IT BE
EQUALLY IMMORAL IF WE FAILED TO
GET THIS INFORMATION AND
THOUSANDS OF AMERICANS DIED?
THERE WAS ANOTHER 9/11?
HOW IMMORAL WOULD THAT BE?
THAT'S THE DILEMMA WE WERE UP
AGAINST.
AND WE FELT A MORAL COMMITMENT
TO PROTECT THE UNITED STATES.
>> Ifill: THAT'S TONIGHT ON
FRONTLINE.
AND ON CHARLIE ROSE, EURASIA
GROUP'S IAN BREMMER ON THE NEED
TO RECONSIDER AMERICA'S ROLE IN
THE WORLD.
ON THE NEWSHOUR ONLINE, IT WAS A
CASUAL REMARK FROM AN
ASTRONOMER, THAT SCIENTISTS ARE
ALL JUST "BOYS WITH TOYS."
BUT IT INSPIRED WOMEN IN THE
FIELD TO RESPOND.
THEY DID IT ONLINE, TWEETING
PHOTOS OF THEMSELVES WITH "TOYS"
LIKE ROBOTS AND POWER TOOLS, TO
REMIND US THAT SMART GIRLS JUST
WANT TO HAVE FUN, TOO.
YOU CAN READ THE FULL STORY,
AND SEE SOME OF THEIR TWEETS, ON
OUR HOME PAGE.
THIS WEEKEND MESHES WILL KICK
OFF THE UNOFFICIAL START OF THE
SUMMER VACATION SEASON.
BEFORE THAT HAPPEN, JOIN US
THURSDAY FOR A TWITTER CHAT ON
SAFETY TIPS FOR THE ROAD, THE
WATER AND THE SUN.
DETAILS ARE ON OUR HOME PAGE.
THAT'S PBS.ORG/NEWSHOUR.
THAT'S AT pbs.org/newshour.
AND THAT'S THE NEWSHOUR FOR
TONIGHT.
ON WEDNESDAY, DO ROBOTS
THREATEN YOUR JOB?
THE FINAL INSTALLMENT IN OUR
ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE SERIES.
I'M GWEN IFILL, WE'LL SEE YOU
ON-LINE AND AGAIN HERE
TOMORROW EVENING.
FOR ALL OF US HERE AT THE PBS
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU AND GOOD
NIGHT.